SOME AMERICANS
LIKE
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE APRIL 15 MEETING
AT THE END OF OUR CITY COUNCIL
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
THAT'S MEMBER HARRISON HARRISON
HERE.
COUNCILMAN WATSON HERE SARA
DENHA HERE COMES MORE ONE HERE
WHERE TAYLOR HERE COMES OUR IRE
HERE.
THAT'S WHY I'M HERE OUR BRIDGE
HERE THAT'S OUR CORNELL.
WE HAVE A QUORUM MADE EMOTIONAL
PLEAS TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN CORNELL
SITTING BY COUNCIL THERE ARE
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA OR
FAVOR OR OPPOSE THE AGENDA HE'S
APPROVED.
WE HAVE AN INTRODUCTION TODAY
FOR THE URBAN AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
MR. CARPENTER, YOU HAVE THE CON
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR. MAYOR.
THE COUNCIL SHOULD BE BACK THIS
EVENING.
I JUST HAVE A FEW OPERATIONAL
UPDATES FROM THE RIDE TO
PROVIDE TO YOU.
THEN I'LL LET YOU HAVE YOUR
EVENING BACK TO YOURSELF SO A
COUPLE OF THINGS.
FIRST OF ALL, I WANT TO START
BY THANKING THIS BODY FOR YOUR
UNANIMOUS SUPPORT OF THE
RESOLUTION I BELIEVE ON THE
18TH OF MARCH ASKING THE
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION TO WORK WITH
THE RIDE IN FORMULATING A
TRANSIT SCENARIO AS A POSSIBLE
SOLUTION AS PART OF THE US
TWENTY THREE CORRIDOR STUDY.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
WE REALLY APPRECIATE IT AND
HAPPY TO REPORT THAT OUR TEAMS
HAVE MET ONCE WE HAD AN INITIAL
BRAINSTORMING CHARACTERIZE
THOSE A PRODUCTIVE PRELIMINARY
DISCUSSION BUT THESE SORTS
OF RELATIONSHIPS TAKE SOME TIME
TO DEVELOP SO I WILL KEEP YOU
INFORMED ON HOW THAT PROGRESSES
BUT WE'RE OFF TO A GOOD START
SO THANK YOU.
SECOND, SOME OF YOU MAY RECALL
THE RIDE WON SUPPORT FROM
VOTERS IN AUGUST OF TWENTY
TWENTY TWO FOR EXPANSION TO
PUBLIC TRANSIT SERVICES.
I'M HAPPY TO GIVE YOU AN UPDATE
ON THAT.
WE'VE ALREADY MOVED SOME
OF THOSE THINGS OPERATIONALLY
AND A COUPLE ARE MORE ARE
STARTING SOON.
SO ON MAY 6TH WE WILL BE
LAUNCHING THE NEW NEW ROUTE ONE
FOR THE WASHTENAW EXPRESS.
THIS IS THE CONSERVATIVES
ALLANTE DOWNTOWN THE DOWNTOWN
EXPRESS ROUTE THAT WAS A BIG
PART OF THAT PROPOSAL.
IT'S GOING TO DRAMATICALLY
REDUCE TRAVEL TIME BETWEEN THE
TWO DOWNTOWNS AND EFFECTIVELY
BRING THE TWO COMMUNITIES
CLOSER TOGETHER MAKING
COMMUTING EDUCATION TRIPS OR
EVEN JUST SHOPPING THAT MUCH
EASIER FOR FOLKS ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE THE CORRIDOR.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT
THAT SERVICE.
AGAIN, WE'LL START ON MAY THE
5TH.
QUICK UPDATE ON OUR
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY.
WE ARE WELL INTO OUR WORK ON
ZERO EMISSION BUS PROPULSION
AND WE'VE CHOSEN FUEL CELL
ELECTRIC HYDROGEN POWERED
BUSSES AS THE PREFERRED MODE
OF TRANSPORT PROPULSION FOR US
GOING FORWARD ALONG WITH LATEST
GENERATION HYBRID DIESEL
ELECTRIC TECHNOLOGY SO THAT WE
DON'T HAVE TO WAIT FOR THE
PERFECTION OF THE HYDROGEN
ECONOMY TO BEGIN REDUCING
EMISSIONS.
WE'RE HAPPY TO REPORT WE'VE
ALREADY BEGUN FUNDING REQUESTS.
WE HAVE EARMARKS INTO SENATOR
PETERS.
WE'LL BE LOOKING FORWARD TO
SUBMITTING ONE TO CONGRESSWOMAN
DINGELL AND WE ARE PRESENTLY
PUTTING THE FINISHING TOUCHES
ON A VERY LARGE TENS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS PROPOSAL
TO THE FEDERAL TRANSIT
ADMINISTRATION.
IT SHOULD BE GOING IN BEFORE
THE END OF THE MONTH.
SO WE'RE ON OUR WAY AND FINALLY
AN UPDATE ABOUT 10 YEARS AGO WE
CAN POUR DOWN AND REBUILT THE
BLAKE TRANSIT CENTER HERE IN
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
WE ARE FINALLY MOVING TO DO THE
SAME THING FOR THE CITY THAT'S
L.A. WE HAVE OPEN PUBLIC
CONSULTATION ON THE
ENVIRONMENTAL AND DESIGN PHASE
FOR THE NEW YPSILANTI TRANSIT
CENTER IN DOWNTOWN YPSILANTI
AND WE WILL BE HOSTING OUR
BOARD MEETING IN MAY OVER THERE
JUST TO MAKE SURE THE PUBLIC
OVER THERE CAN AND CAN COME AND
SPEAK TO US AND OUR BOARD
MEETING HERE IN ANN ARBOR WILL
BE THIS THURSDAY.
SIX THIRTY AT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY TOP FLOOR BY ANYONE
INTERESTED TO STOP BY.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME
.
PLEASE HAVE A GREAT MEETING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE NOW HAVE THE CITY
ADMINISTRATORS PRESENTATION
OF THE PROPOSED FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE BUDGET MR.
TONY THAT THE CON
CITY MAYOR OR
MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL PLEASURE
TO BE HERE TO PRESENT TO YOU
THE TWENTY FIVE BUDGET.
AS YOU KNOW THIS IS YEAR TWO,
THE BIENNIAL SO TYPICALLY IN
YEAR TWO THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF MAJOR CHANGES MAJOR SWEEPS
MAJOR ALTERIO IN OF DIRECTION.
SOME OF WHAT YOU WILL HEAR ME
TOUCH ON TONIGHT YOU GOT A
PREVIEW OF A YEAR AGO BUT THERE
ARE SOME UPDATES THAT WE ARE
HAPPY TO PROVIDE FOR YOU.
THE THEME THAT WE'VE CHOSEN FOR
THIS EVENING IS ADVANCING AS WE
RESET AND AS I MOVE THROUGH
WITH THE OBVIOUS WHAT WE NEED
WE ARE PRESENTING AT ALL FUNDS
BUDGET ABAB HUNDRED AND SIXTY
THREE DOLLARS MILLION FIVE
HUNDRED EIGHTY THREE THOUSAND
FOUR HUNDRED SIXTY SEVEN.
OUR GENERAL FUND IS JUST S
OF ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY
MILLION DOLLARS.
YOU WILL RECALL THAT FROM A
STYLE PERSPECTIVE MINE IS I'M
NOT GOING TO STAND HERE AND
JUST READ YOU A LIST OF NUMBERS
.
I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT WHAT
WE'RE GOING TO DO WITH THE
MONEY AND THE DETAILS WILL BE
CONTAINED IN THE WRITTEN
DOCUMENT AS REQUIRED BY LAW.
THIS BUDGET IS BALANCED AND
THERE ARE NO PROPOSED SERVICE
CUTS.
RESET MEANS JUST THAT WE'VE GOT
TO TAKE STOCK AND WE'VE GOT TO
MAKE CHANGES THE NEXT SLIDE
ILLUSTRATES EXACTLY WHERE WE
ARE.
SO WE HAD IN THIS BUDGET
FUNDING TO DO THE SANITARY
SEWER COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
PROCESS STORMWATER PLAN, THE
WATER DISTRIBUTION PLAN, THE
NON UNION COMPENSATION STUDY,
THE URBAN TREE CANOPY
ASSESSMENT AND AS YOU KNOW OUR
OVERALL COMP PLAN IS UNDERWAY
WHICH WAS ADDRESS LAST YEAR ON
THAT EXPENDITURE WAS SEVEN
HUNDRED THOUSAND WHEN YOU PUT
ALL OF THESE PLANS TOGETHER WE
ARE INVESTING ONE POINT SEVEN
BILLION DOLLARS IN PLANS.
IT STANDS TO REASON THAT IF
WE'RE DOING THAT WE'RE NOT
GOING TO COME OUT ON THE OTHER
END AND NOTHING CHANGES.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO COME OUT ON
THE OTHER END AND DO EXACTLY
WHAT WE'VE BEEN DOING IN THE
MANNER THAT WE'VE BEEN DOING IT
.
WE ARE NOT AWARE OF WHAT THE
OUTCOMES WILL BE AND SO THE
FUNDAMENTAL DECISION THAT WE
HAD TO REACH FIRST IS SHOULD WE
TRY TO PAUSE EVERYTHING AS MUCH
AS POSSIBLE AND WAIT ON THE
PLANNING PROCESSES TO BE
COMPLETE AND THEN FORWARD?
THE ADMINISTRATION'S POSITION
IS WE SHOULD NOT DO THAT.
AND SO AS WE HUDDLE WE BELIEVE
THAT WE NEED TO ADVANCE AND
THIS BUDGET IS DESIGNED TO
ILLUSTRATE HOW WE PROPOSE TO DO
THAT.
IT BEGINS WITH ROADS AND
INFRASTRUCTURE.
WHEN I GOT HERE TWO AND A HALF
YEARS AGO THE FIRST THING I
HEARD AND HEARD LOUDLY WAS THE
ROADS ARE IN BAD SHAPE SO WE
PUT TOGETHER WITH YOUR SUPPORT
A LOW BOND TO START TO ADDRESS
THAT ISSUE.
WE ARE ABOUT TO ENTER YEAR
THREE OF THE ROAD BOND
INITIATIVE DURING THE FIRST TWO
YEARS OF THE PROJECT WE
SERVICED OUR IMPROVED FIFTY
STREETS FOR ONE HUNDRED AND
FOUR LANE MILES OF ROAD.
AS I SAID A YEAR AGO IN ORDER
TO DO THIS WORK IT IS
INCONVENIENT.
SO I'M SAYING AGAIN TO THE
COMMUNITY YOU'RE ABOUT TO BE
INCONVENIENCED BECAUSE WHEN THE
CONSTRUCTION STARTS IT
REDIRECTS TRAFFIC.
IT GETS IN YOUR WAY.
THERE'S FEWER LANES, IT TAKES
YOU LONGER.
BUT ON THE OTHER END OF IT WE
WILL SEE THE IMPROVEMENT IN THE
INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE ROADS
THAT WE NEED TO SEE.
THIS IS A PREVIEW OF THE YEAR
THREE LINE WARD ONE ACTUALLY
FROM KINGSLEY TO MILLER, THE
EAST MEDICAL CENTER BRIDGE WARD
TO ABERDEEN DRIVE FROM HEATHER
TO ARLINGTON INDEPENDENCE
BOULEVARD AND IN WARD THREE
HILL STREET IN WARD THREE AND
MORE BITH TO CHURCH 7TH STREET
FROM CYL CHURCH TO DELAWARE
GREENWAY DRIVE IN WARD FOUR
MILLER AVENUE AND SAUNDERS'
CRESCENT IN WARD FIVE SIMPLY
PUT, IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT A
ROAD BOND TOUCH ALL FIVE WARDS
AND IT WILL.
WE ARE ALSO GOING TO CONDUCT AN
ASSESSMENT OF BARTON DAM.
YOU HEARD SOME CONVERSATION
ABOUT THAT WHEN WE HAD THE WORK
SESSION A FEW MONTHS AGO.
WE'RE INVESTING ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY THOUSAND OUT OF THIS
BUDGET IN ORDER TO GET THAT
DONE.
TAKING CARE OF OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE IS EXPENSIVE.
IT IS TIME CONSUMING.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
ASSESSMENT WILL TELL US BUT WE
WILL ADDRESS IT ON THE BACK END
REFERENCING THE WATER TREATMENT
PLANT.
SO IT'S LOOK AT IT FROM THE BIG
PICTURE FIRST WE TALKED ABOUT
THIS A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO.
THIS PLAN WAS BUILT CIRCA
NINETEEN THIRTY EIGHT SOMEWHERE
AROUND THERE IN ORDER TO
REPLACE IT IT IS AN EXPENDITURE
OF IN EXCESS OF ONE HUNDRED
MILLION DOLLARS EVEN IF YOU
WANTED TO YOU COULD NOT REPLACE
IT ALL AT ONCE.
IT REQUIRES SEVERAL STEPS ON
THE FRONT END AND SEVERAL STEPS
TO ACTUALLY EXECUTE THE
CREATION OF THE NEW PLAN IN
THIS BUDGET WE HAVE INVESTED
MONEY TO OPERATE IN THE PILOT
BECAUSE ONE OF THE STEPS IS YOU
MAKE A PILOT OPERATION AND YOU
USE THAT AS YOUR MODEL TO SEE
WHAT'S GOING TO BE REQUIRED
WHEN THE PLANE IS ACTUALLY
BUILT.
WE WILL BE FOCUSING ON DATA
COLLECTION.
WE WILL ALSO BE USING THE PILOT
TO HELP US DETERMINE WHAT KIND
OF TECHNOLOGY IS NECESSARY WHEN
THE NEW PLANT IS ACTUALLY BUILT
.
YOU WILL RECALL THIS IS A
PIVOTAL ELEMENT OF OUR
LEGISLATIVE STRATEGY.
WE HOPE TO SECURE FUNDING FROM
THE FEDERAL INFRASTRUCTURE BILL
IN ORDER TO MAKE IT HAPPEN.
BUT AGAIN THAT WILL HAPPEN IN
PHASES OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL
YEARS.
LAST YEAR YOU HEARD US TALK
ABOUT THE ELECTIONS BUT WHEN WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT IT IT WAS A
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION.
WE NEEDED TO ACQUIRE A FACILITY
THAT WOULD ALLOW US TO ENSURE
THAT A PIVOTAL ELEMENT
OF DEMOCRACY IS PRESERVED.
SO WE BOUGHT A BUILDING
ESSENTIALLY BAREBONES WITH THIS
BUDGET WE ARE INSERTING THE
OPERATIONAL COST OF THAT
FACILITY INTO THE BUDGET.
WHAT WE ARE STILL WAITING ON IS
FUNDING FROM LEGISLATIVELY
DIRECTED DISCRETIONARY FUNDING
TO DO THE BUILDOUT.
WE WON'T KNOW ABOUT THE STATUS
OF THAT UNTIL LATER IN THE
YEAR.
AS YOU CAN SEE THAT IS ALREADY
WORKING IN THE BUILDING.
THIS IS ALSO THE FUTURE HOME IN
WITH REGARDS TO ALWAYS-ON WE'RE
MOVING INTO AN ADDITIONAL YEAR
OF HAVING TO SUSTAINABILITY
MILLAGE AVAILABLE ONE OF THE
KEY ELEMENTS THAT TAKES PLACE
WITHIN OUR SITE SO THEY WILL
SEED AN IDEA.
THEY WILL INVESTIGATE IT.
THEY WILL CULTIVATE IT AND THEY
WILL SEEK TO EXPAND IT AND
THAT'S WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN NY
TWENTY FIVE STARTING WITH MORE
STRIDES OR MORE UTILIZATION
OF GEOTHERMAL.
YOU CANNOT DO GEOTHERMAL WITHIN
WASHTENAW COUNTY WITHOUT HAVING
COUNTY APPROVAL.
COUNTY REGULATION.
I WOULD LIKE TO PUBLICLY THANK
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR GREG GILL
FOR HIS SUPPORT BECAUSE FOR US
GEOTHERMAL IS SOMETHING THAT WE
WANT TO APPLY IN MULTIPLE PARTS
OF THE COMMUNITY ATTACHED TO
MULTIPLE PROJECTS AND SO WE
NEEDED TO UNDERSTAND FROM THE
COUNTY WHERE WE COULD DO THAT
WHAT THE RULES OF ENGAGEMENT
LOOK LIKE.
THE STAFF HAS WORKED THROUGH
THAT AND WE BELIEVE THAT WE CAN
SEE IT UTILIZED IN VARIOUS
PARTS OF OUR CITY.
WE EXPECT TO BREAK GROUND FOR
THE WHEELER CENTER SOLAR PARK
IF EVERYTHING WAS AS WE HOPE
THAT WILL TAKE PLACE IN
SEPTEMBER AND WE LOVE FOR IT TO
COINCIDE WITH THE VISIT OF THE
TUEBINGEN DELEGATION THAT'S
COMING HERE AS PART OF THE
BICENTENNIAL.
OH YES.
I WILL ALSO BE EXPANDING THEIR
RESILIENCE EFFORTS AGAIN TRYING
TO DO THAT IN MORE THAN JUST A
SINGLE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE DO EXPECT IN ABOUT TWENTY
FIVE TO REACH OUR GOAL OF TEN
THOUSAND TREES PLANTING TREES
ON PRIVATE PROPERTY TO ENHANCE
OUR EQUITY AND RESILIENCE.
THAT IS REALLY A MAJOR
MILESTONE FOR OUR CITY TO BE
ABLE TO REACH IT AND REALLY
REACH IT PRETTY QUICKLY AND
WE'VE HAD HELP FROM OTHER
PARTNERS
.
WE'VE HAD A LOT OF SUPPORT IN
THE COMMUNITY.
IT IS A GOOD PROJECT FOR THE
CITY TO WORK ON WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND IT IS A PRIME
EXAMPLE OF MEETING OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS WILL COME
IN THE CITY WORKING IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE PUBLIC
THAT IT SERVES.
WE ARE ALSO PROPOSING TO BEGIN
AT SERGER DISCOUNT PROGRAM
LATER IN THE YEAR THAT WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR BOTH COMMERCIAL
AND MULTIUNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
THIS IS AN ADDITIONAL
ENCOURAGEMENT FOR PEOPLE TO
CONSIDER VEHICLES AGAIN FOR THE
REGION.
THE SUSTAINABILITY GOALS THAT
WE'VE SET FOR THE COMMUNITY
CUSTOMER SERVICE WE HAVE TALKED
ABOUT THIS, TALKED ABOUT THIS
TALK ABOUT THIS MORE WITH THIS
BUDGET.
WE WANT TO MAKE A MAJOR MOVE
TOWARDS ACTUALLY ADDRESSING
WHAT WE'VE BEEN HEARING.
IT DOESN'T FIT SIMPLY ONE PART
OF THE GOVERNMENT.
IT RELATES TO A LOT THE OUTWARD
FACING WORK THAT WE DO IN
SERVING THE PUBLIC.
WE HAVE DECIDED WE'RE MOVING
ALL IN OUR CUSTOMER SERVICE
WITH THIS BUDGET THAT WILL NOW
OCCUR WITH A SINGLE ACTION IN A
SINGLE DEPARTMENT.
IT WILL REQUIRE SEVERAL ACTIONS
TAKEN COLLECTIVELY IN ORDER FOR
US TO MOVE THE NEEDLE.
THERE ARE FOUR PRIMARY PRODUCTS
THAT WE NEED TO ADDRESS
ESTABLISHING STANDARDS WHICH WE
HAVE DONE THROUGH WORK WITH OUR
OFFICE OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY
AND H.R. WITH THE SUPPORT
OF THE EXECUTIVE STAFF WE
NEEDED TO ESTABLISH STANDARDS
THAT WE WILL HOLD OURSELVES TO
FOR GETTING BACK TO PEOPLE
WITHIN A TIMELY FRAMEWORK AND
THE STANDARD NEEDS TO BE
CONSISTENT ACROSS THE
GOVERNMENT.
IT DOESN'T MEAN WE CAN SOLVE OR
ISSUE.
IT DOESN'T MEAN WE HAVE THE
MONEY TO ADDRESS WHAT YOU'RE
CONTACTING US ABOUT BUT WE AT
LEAST NEED TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
WE'VE HEARD WHAT YOU'RE ASKING
US AND THAT WE'RE WORKING ON
IT.
WE ALSO NEED TO PROVIDE
TRAINING FOR STAFF, KNOW WHAT
THE STANDARDS ARE, UNDERSTAND
BETTER WAYS TO IMPLEMENT
CUSTOMER SERVICE WITHIN THE
AREA OF YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
CUSTOMERS SERVICE HAS TO BE
PART OF EVERYONE'S PORTFOLIO.
IT'S NOT BOTTOM UP.
IT'S NOT TOP DOWN.
IT'S EVERY PERSON THAT WORKS
FOR THE CITY THAN THE THIRD
PRONG OF THIS APPROACH HAS TO
DO WITH REDUCING PROCESS TIME.
SIMPLY PUT, PEOPLE TELL US IT
TAKES YOU TOO LONG FOR ME TO
WORK THROUGH WHATEVER PROCESSES
IN ORDER FOR ME TO GET WHAT I'M
TRYING TO GET.
THEY ALSO TELL US THAT THERE
DON'T APPEAR TO BE ENOUGH
OF YOU TO ADDRESS MY NEEDS.
SO REDUCING PROCESS TIME AND
EXPANDING OUR CAPACITY TO
PERFORM IS SOMETHING THAT WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT A LOT AND WORKED
ON AS A TEAM WE HAD DESIGNED A
LEAN ORGANIZATION NOTHING I'M
SAYING TONIGHT CHANGES THAT WE
WILL NEVER BE AT A THOUSAND
EMPLOYEES AGAIN.
WE DON'T SEE THAT THE NUMBERS
INDICATE THAT'S POSSIBLE BUT WE
CAN BE SMARTER ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING MORE INTENTIONAL ABOUT
WHAT WE'RE DOING AND BRING
BENCH STRENGTH IF YOU WILL
WHERE APPROPRIATE SOMEONE WILL
WALK THROUGH WHAT THAT LOOKS
LIKE IN THAT FLIGHT.
TWENTY FIVE ALL OF THESE ARE
LARGE FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS.
SOME ARE VIRTUALLY INEXPENSIVE
BUT TAKEN COLLECTIVELY WE THINK
WE CAN MOVE THE NEEDLE THAT
NEEDS TO BE MOVED STARTING WITH
PURCHASING TABLETS FOR THE
ASSESSORS.
WHY IS THAT IMPORTANT TODAY
ASSESSORS ARE OUT IN THE FIELD
CONDUCTING INSPECTIONS.
THEY CAN ONLY DO SO MANY
BECAUSE THEY HAVE TO GET BACK
TO CITY HALL TO UPLOAD THEIR
INFORMATION BY HAVING THE
TABLET YOU CAN UPLOAD THE
INFORMATION FROM THE FIELD
REMOVING THE NEED FOR YOU TO
COME BACK SO YOU CAN GET MORE
INSPECTIONS DONE EACH DAY.
SOLID WASTE OPTIMUS ROUTE
OPTIMIZATION WE HAVEN'T DONE
THIS IN OVER A DECADE.
WE BELIEVE THAT DOING IT NOW
WILL ALLOW US TO SHORTEN SOME
OF THE ROUTES THAT WE'RE USING
IN OUR SOLID WASTE PICK UP BY
DOING THE OPTIMIZATION WE WILL
BE ABLE TO FINISH THE ROUTES
FASTER.
IT WILL ALLOW US TO BETTER
BALANCE THE WORKLOAD.
IT WILL ALLOW US TO DELIVER A
BETTER SERVICE THAN WE'RE DOING
TODAY.
WE WILL BE ADDING STAFF FOR
VOLCOM POST COLLECTIONS AND
WE'RE GOING TO BE ADDING THREE
ENTRY LEVEL PLANERS.
SO IN THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT
WE HAVE TWO PEOPLE THAT WILL BE
RETIRING WHEN THEY LEAVE.
I REMEMBER CORRECTLY FIFTY
SEVEN YEARS OF INSTITUTIONAL
KNOWLEDGE WALKS OUT THE DOOR
WITH THEM.
WE'VE GOT TO REPLACE THEM WITH
ENTRY LEVEL PLANNERS FRESH
PERSPECTIVE WE HAVE TO BE
PATIENT AS THEY BUILD CAPACITY
.
BUT WE THINK HAVING THREE NEW
PEOPLE TO ADDRESS WHAT WE NEED
IN THE PLANNING AREA WE'RE IN
THE LONG RUN RENDER A BETTER
SERVICE.
A LOT OF WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT
WITHIN THIS SPACE WILL NOT BE
CHARGED AGAINST A GENERAL BUT
WE HAVE OTHER FLOORS WHERE A
LOT OF THIS ACTIVITY IS
RELEVANT AND SO WE WILL CHARGE
THESE POSITIONS TO THE
APPROPRIATE FUNDING AND THE CFO
IS SITTING IN THE AUDIENCE TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE DO THAT
PERMIT LIAISON GOING BACK
PROBABLY A YEAR AND A HALF.
THERE WAS A LOT OF CONVERSATION
ABOUT OMBUDSMAN.
WE WERE ASKED TO STUDY PUTTING
AN OMBUDSMAN IN THE GOVERNMENT
.
WE BROUGHT IN AN INTERVIEW
FELLOW TO DO RESEARCH ON IT.
WE LOOKED AT OMBUDSMAN'S
PROGRAMING IN OTHER CITIES WITH
OTHER TYPES OF ORGANIZATION AND
THE CONCLUSION IS WE DO NOT
NEED AN OMBUDSMAN FOR THE TOTAL
GOVERNMENT BECAUSE IN MANY
AREAS IT WOULD SIMPLY BE
DUPLICATIVE.
YOU'RE SIMPLY ADDING ANOTHER
LAYER OF BUREAUCRACY WHERE WE
HAVE HEARD AND WHERE WE HAVE
SEEN THAT WE NEED TO DO A MUCH
BETTER JOB AS IT RELATES TO
PERMITTING SO THIS PERSON WILL
BE CALLED A PERMANENT LIAISON.
THEY WILL HELP TO UNCLOG THE
STOPS THEY WILL HELP TO RUN
DOWN THE ISSUES ASSOCIATED WITH
OBTAINING A PERMIT.
THEY WILL BE ABLE TO HELP WITH
HANDHOLDING, GIVE HANDHOLDING
IF NECESSARY.
THEY WILL BE ABLE TO GO TO
VARIOUS OFFICES TO ASK HOW CAN
WE WORK THROUGH THESE ISSUES?
THIS WILL HELP US TO MOVE
THROUGH THE PERMITTING PROCESS
A LITTLE FASTER THAT WE'RE
DOING NOW.
WE'RE ALSO PROPOSED TO AND A
PLANNED REVIEW OF OUR PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT IN THE ENGINEERING
SECTION AGAIN TRYING TO GET
MORE REVIEWS DONE, MORE
INSPECTIONS DONE, TRYING TO
PROVIDE BETTER CUSTOMER SERVICE
.
WE WANT TO ADD A TRADE
INSPECTOR AGAIN MORE
INSPECTIONS, MORE REVIEWS
INCREASE OUR CAPACITY.
WE ALSO PROPOSE TO UPGRADE
UTILITY BILLING SOFTWARE.
WE HAVE TWENTY YEARS WORTH
OF DATA AND WE NEED TO MOVE TO
A WEB BASED SOLUTION FOR THIS
AND THIS PARTICULAR ITEM WILL
ALLOW US TO DO IT WILL HELP US
TO BE BETTER TRANSPARENT TO BE
ABLE TO GET MORE INFORMATION
FASTER AND IS SIMPLY A
MODERNIZED VERSION OF THE
FUNCTION.
WE ARE ALSO GOING TO BE
CONTRACTING WITH A THIRD PARTY
CONSULTANT AGAIN MORE
INSPECTIONS, MORE REVIEWS ALL
IN THE EFFORT OF GETTING PEOPLE
THROUGH OUR PROCESS MORE
QUICKLY.
WE'RE ALSO GOING TO BE ADDING
AN INSPECTOR FOR DANGEROUS
BUILDINGS.
IT WAS INTERESTING TO ME TO
LEARN THAT IN A CITY LIKE AN
WHERE WE HAVE A LOT
OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS WHO NEED
A PERSON TO DEAL WITH IT BUT WE
DO AND SO WE'RE GOING TO
ADDRESS THAT.
WE ALSO ARE PROPOSING TO ADD A
ZONING COORDINATOR SO WHEN YOU
TAKE ALL OF THE THINGS THAT
I'VE JUST SAID TOGETHER, YOU
CAN SEE THAT THERE'S A MAJOR
EFFORT BEING MADE BY THE
ADMINISTRATION TO BE MORE
CUSTOMER FRIENDLY, TO BE MORE
CUSTOMER SERVICE SENSITIVE IF
YOU WILL.
AND WE ARE NOT DONE.
WE ALSO NEED TO DO A MINDSET
REVIEW.
THIS IS MY PHRASE.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING WE FOUND IN
A BOOK.
THIS IS THE WAY I PUT THINGS WE
NEED TO DETER OR REVISIT.
ARE WE HERE TO DEFAULT TO KNOW
ARE WE HERE TO FACILITATE
GETTING TO YES.
FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION WE HAVE TO
HAVE A HEART TO HEART WITH
OURSELVES ON OUR ROLE ON HOW WE
GO ABOUT IT, ON WHAT WE SEE AS
OUR CHARGE ON ARE WE IN FACT
ACTING IN THE BEST WAY POSSIBLE
TO FACILITATE THE DIRECTION
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL HAS GIVEN
US?
SIMPLY PUT, CUSTOMER SERVICE
SNOW OPERATIONS WE HEARD YOU
YOU ARE NOT HAPPY WITH HOW WE
HANDLE SNOW LAST YEAR.
WE'RE IN A CLIMATE I'LL JUST
SAY IT'S UNPREDICTABLE.
WE DON'T HAVE EVIDENCE THAT
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE DOUBLE
DIGIT SNOW EVENTS EVERY WINTER.
IN FACT, IT SEEMS TO BE
TRENDING OPPOSITE THAT BUT BUT
WHEN WE DO HAVE A SNOW
INCIDENT, IT'S UNPREDICTABLE
HOW IT'S GOING TO BEHAVE SO THE
OPERATIONAL PLAN THAT WE'VE HAD
TO DATE IS THAT WE WILL
FUNCTION PRIMARILY OR INITIALLY
ON ADDRESSING PRIMARY HONORIS.
WE REQUIRE TO DO THAT.
YOU'VE GOT TO BE ABLE TO GET TO
HOSPITALS.
YOU GOT TO BE ABLE TO GET TO
CERTAIN PLACES.
IT JUST MUST HAPPEN.
SO OUR THEORY OUR WORKING
THEORY IN TERMS OF PREPARATIONS
HAS BEEN CLEAR.
THE PRIMARIES MOVE INTO THE
LOCALS.
THAT'S FINE UNLESS THE STORM
EVOLVES IN A MANNER THAT
REQUIRES YOU TO RETRACE YOUR
STEPS SO YOU IF YOU HAVE TO GO
BACK THROUGH THE PRIMARIES A
SECOND OR THIRD TIME, IT DELAYS
YOUR ABILITY TO GET INTO THE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND SO PEOPLE GET
FRUSTRATED THIS BUDGET WILL
INVEST FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS TO CONTRACT WITH THE
PRIVATE SECTOR SO THAT THEY CAN
START ON THE LOCAL STREETS THAT
INITIALLY WHILE WE ARE CLEARING
PRIMARIES WE WILL JOIN THE
FIGHT IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS AS
SOON AS WE GET THE PRIMARIES
UNDER CONTROL.
SO THEY WILL WORK ON LOCAL
STREETS AND REFUGEE ISLAND SNOW
REMOVAL.
WE ARE ALSO INVESTING ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS IN A
PIECE OF EQUIPMENT TO CLEAR
SNOW OUT OF BIGLY YES FREE
COFFEE WITH THAT ONE LAYER I'VE
HEARD A LOT ABOUT THAT WE WERE
A LITTLE SURPRISED AT THE COST
OF IT BUT IT CLEARLY IS
NECESSARY AND SOMETHING THAT WE
NEED FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE AND
WE'RE HAPPY TO BE ABLE TO DO IT
.
EXPANDING FUNCTIONALITY.
THIS IS WAY IN THE WEEDS BUT
I'M MENTIONING IT TO ILLUSTRATE
THE DEPTH THAT WE HAVE GONE TO
TO THINK THROUGH HOW CAN WE DO
A BETTER JOB FOR THOSE WE ARE
HERE TO SERVE SELL THE
EQUIPMENT THAT YOU SEE IN THE
PICTURE.
I'LL JUST SAY HISTORICALLY
EQUIPMENT LIKE THAT MIGHT HAVE
SERVED A PRIMARY FUNCTION.
WE ARE NOW GEARING UP TO DO
FOUR THINGS IT'LL BE A BODY.
IT'LL BE A SALT SPREADER.
WE'LL BE ABLE TO DO LIQUID
TANKS ON IT WHICH MEANS THAT'S
WHAT YOU USE FOR TREATING
BEFORE THE SNOW ACTUALLY FALLS
AND WE ARE BUYING A NINE.
BUT WHILE WE PLOW SO WHEN WE DO
CLEAR A PATHWAY GETTING CLEAR A
LOT WIDER AREA THAN WE HAVE THE
ABILITY TO DO NOW WE DO ALL
THESE THINGS BUT WE NEED HELP
FROM THE COMMUNITY.
SO WE'RE GOING TO ASK WE'RE
GOING TO INSIST YOU HAVE TO
MOVE YOUR CARS.
YOU SIMPLY CANNOT DO CURB TO
CURB IF THERE'S MORE CARS HERE
AND THEN THERE'S A GAP THERE'S
TWO MORE CARS YOU GOT TO CLEAR
IT OUT SO WE CAN DO CURB TO
CURB CLEARANCE WHERE WE ARE
ABOUT TO GO A LITTLE BIT
CONTRARY TO OUR VALUES AND IF
YOU WANT TO BE MAD AT ANYONE,
BE MAD AT ME.
WHAT WE DO NOW WE PUT SALT AT
INTERSECTIONS ALL OF THOSE WE
DON'T NECESSARILY SPREAD THE
SAME WAY BECAUSE WE HAVE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE
ENVIRONMENTAL USAGE OF SALT
CAN'T HAVE IT BOTH WAYS.
WE SPREAD SALT FOR YOU PEOPLE
GET THE DESIRED IMPACT THAT
THEY WANT BUT IT MEANS
SPREADING SALT MORE.
WE ARE PROPOSING THAT WE NEED
TO DO THAT IN CONCERT WITH
THESE OTHER STEPS THAT WE'RE
TAKING TO ALLOW US TO MANAGE
THE SNOW EVENTS IN THE MANNER
THAT THE PUBLIC IS REQUESTING.
WE GOT TO SEE HOW IT GOES.
A LOT OF DETAILS THAT COME WITH
THIS BUT I'M GIVING YOU SOME
OF THE BIG PICTURE DIRECTION
THAT WE WANT TO GO IN IN THAT
PLAN.
TWENTY FIVE ADVANCING AS WE
RESET.
WE NEED TO GET IN POSITION TO
DETERMINE WHAT OUR OPTIONS ARE
AS IT RELATES TO UTILITIES AND
IN ORDER TO DO THAT WE DO NOT
CURRENTLY HAVE ENOUGH
INFORMATION TO MAKE INTELLIGENT
DECISIONS THAT REQUIRES THE
PHASE TWO STUDY.
IT'S BEEN TALKED ABOUT
PREVIOUSLY.
IT'S DEBATED AND IT'S BEEN
ADVOCATED FOR THE CONSULT THAT
WE HIRE ADVISE THAT IT'LL COST
US A MILLION DOLLARS WE ARE
PROPOSING WITH THIS BUDGET TO
SPEND A MILLION DOLLARS TO DO
THE STUDY AND THEN DECISIONS
CAN BE MADE ON THE DIRECTION
THAT THE POLICYMAKERS WANT US
TO MOVE IN IN ORDER TO DO IT
AND IT IS EXPENSIVE.
I DID NOT PROPOSE TO TAKE A
MILLION DOLLARS OUT OF THE FUND
BALANCE.
I DID NOT PROPOSE TO TAKE A
MILLION OUT OF THE THINGS THAT
I'M TALKING TO YOU ABOUT.
I DID THEN SOME OF THE THINGS I
MENTIONED WOULD NOT BE POSSIBLE
.
WE ARE WORKING ON A
TRANSACTION.
I'VE BEEN IN DISCUSSIONS FOR A
LITTLE BIT OF TIME WITH THE
DEVELOPER THAT WILL LEAD TO AN
AIR RIGHTS TRANSACTION.
I HAVE BEEN INFORMED THAT AIR
RIGHTS TRANSACTIONS ARE NEW TO
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND OUR
GOVERNMENT.
THEY ARE NOT NEW IN THE WORLD
OF DEVELOPMENT.
SO WHAT IT MEANS IS THAT IF THE
CITY HAS A PIECE OF PROPERTY
AND A DEVELOPMENT WANTS TO
INFRINGE UPON THE SPACE ABOVE
THE PROPERTY THAT WE OWN THAT
HAS A VALUE.
SO YOU GO TWENTY FIVE FEET AND
ABOVE AND YOU ASSESS WHAT THAT
VALUE IS.
WE WERE APPROACHED ABOUT A
DEVELOPMENT AT SIX SIXTEEN
SOUTH FOREST THAT NEEDS AIR
RIGHTS.
THEY MADE US AN OFFER OF ONE
POINT TWO MILLION DOLLARS.
WE HIRED AN INDEPENDENT
APPRAISER TO ASSESS THE VALUE
OF THE AIR RIGHTS AND THE
APPRAISAL MATCHED EXACTLY WHAT
THE OFFER IS THAT DOESN'T
ALWAYS HAPPEN BUT IT HAPPENED
IN THIS CASE.
SO I AM PROPOSING TAKING A
MILLION DOLLARS OUT OF THE ONE
POINT TWO TO PAY FOR THE PHASE
TWO STUDY IF THE PHASE TWO
STUDY COMES BACK CHEAPER THAN A
MILLION THEN WE WILL HAVE MORE
MONEY AND I WILL COME BACK TO
YOU BECAUSE WE STILL NEED TO
ADDRESS OUR LACK OF AN LLC
WHICH YOU HEARD ME SAY AT OUR
STUDY SESSION A WEEK OR TWO TWO
WEEKS AGO I GUESS YOU PASS FOR
RESOLUTION SETTING OUT A BROAD
DIRECTION FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO
GET US TO DO SOME THINGS THAT
WE HAVEN'T REALLY BEEN
ADDRESSING COLLECTIVELY OVER A
PERIOD OF TIME.
ONE OF THOSE RESOLUTIONS CALL
FOR THE CREATION OF AN OFFICE
OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT WITH
THIS BUDGET WE ARE PROPOSING TO
ESTABLISH AN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR AND AN
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COORDINATOR POSITION.
THIS IS AN AREA THAT BOTH JOHN
AND I ARE VERY PASSIONATE ABOUT
.
I WANT TO COMMEND DEPUTY
ADMINISTRATOR FOURNIER FOR HIS
WORK ON THIS AREA.
BUT OUR JOBS ARE MULTIFACETED.
WE DO NOT HAVE THE CAPACITY TO
DO TO DEVOTE EVERY SINGLE
WAKING HOUR TO ECONOMIC GROWTH
AND IF YOU'RE GOING TO MOVE THE
NEEDLE YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE THAT
CITIES THAT DO HAVE THAT
ABILITY HIRING SOMEONE THAT
GETS UP EVERY SINGLE DAY WITH
THE SINGULAR PURPOSE WILL ALLOW
US TO MOVE CLOSER TO THE
DIRECTION THAT YOU'VE GIVEN US.
THE PICTURES INDICATE IN SIMPLE
TERMS WHAT THAT IS HOUSING AT
ALL LEVELS AND GETTING IN A
BETTER POSITION FOR LAND
ACQUISITION.
WE WILL NEVER BE COMPETITIVE
FOR DOLLAR WITH THE UNIVERSITY
BUT AT LEAST WE CAN BE MORE
AGGRESSIVE THAN WE CURRENTLY
ARE IN TRYING TO EXPAND AND
PROTECT THE ECONOMIC BASE THAT
DRIVES THE OPERATIONS OF THE
CITY.
I WILL SAY BEFORE WE EVEN GET
TO IT A TRULY SKILLED
EXPERIENCED ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR IS NOT
CHEAP .
THEY CAN
PICK WHAT THEY WANT
AND THEY'RE GOING TO TELL YOU
WHAT HAS TO BE.
SO WHEN WE COME BACK TO YOU,
WE'LL LOOK FORWARD TO BRINGING
SOMEBODY ON BOARD TO HELP OUT.
THEN WE HAVE A SERIES
OF CONTINGENT LANSING'S THESE
ARE THINGS THAT WILL BE
IMPACTED BY SUCCESS IN
OBTAINING FUNDING.
IT WOULD IMPACT THE SCHEDULE
OF THE PROJECT.
THE CONSERVANCY IS VERY
PASSIONATE ABOUT THE TREE LINE
TRAIL TREE LINE TRAIL IS A BIG
VISION.
IT'LL REQUIRE 10 YEARS TO DO
EVERYTHING THAT'S ENVISIONED.
RIGHT NOW THEY ARE FOCUSING ON
ACQUISITION.
WE HAVE BEEN SUPPORTING THEIR
EFFORTS TO SECURE A TWO MILLION
DOLLAR ACQUISITION PIECE
OF FUNDING TO ADVANCE IT.
WE DON'T TALK A LOT ABOUT THE
TRAIN STATION BUT THE GROWTH
THAT WE'RE SEEING IN ANN ARBOR
NECESSITATES THAT WE REIMAGINE
WHAT THE TRAIN STATION IS IN
ORDER TO DO THAT IT'S
REBUILDING DEPOT STREET AT
DEPOT STREET, NOT AT ANOTHER
SITE BUT WE NEED STATE OR
FEDERAL HELP TO DO THAT.
AND SO IT'S ON THE LIST THE
FIRST STEP WOULD BE TO SECURE A
PLANNING GRANT THESE PROJECTS
TAKE AN AWFULLY LONG TIME.
EVEN IF YOU HAD ALL THE MONEY
YOU COULDN'T GO AS FAST AS YOU
WOULD LIKE.
SO IT'S ABOUT MORE THAN MONEY
IN THIS CASE IT IS ABOUT
PROCESS BECAUSE THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT DICTATES WHAT THE
PROCESS NEEDS TO BE.
SO WE WILL ALL HAVE TO BE
PATIENT.
THE ELECTION CENTER BUILT OUT
I'VE ALREADY MENTIONED BURTON
POND EMBANKMENT IS SOMETHING
THAT WE WILL HAVE TO ADDRESS.
IT WILL BE A SIGNIFICANT CERP
EXPENDITURE BUT SOMETHING THAT
WE ARE LOOKING FOR OTHER
GOVERNMENTAL SUPPORT IN ORDER
TO BE ABLE TO DO THE ELC SEE I
KEEP MENTIONING THAT I FIGURE
IF I KEEP SAYING IT OUT LOUD
THAT IT'LL HAPPEN AT SOME POINT
DURING THAT TWENTY FIVE WE'RE
GOING TO MAKE IT HAPPEN.
BUT WE ALSO NEED TO MAKE HAPPEN
A NEW FIRE STATION NUMBER FOUR
DURING THESE STORMS
ENVIRONMENTS THAT I'VE TALKED
ABOUT WE HAVE EXPERIENCED FIRE
STATIONS THAT LOSE POWER FAST
STATIONS THAT DO NOT HAVE
SUFFICIENT ALTERNATE BACKUP
POWER MAKING THEM HAVE TO MOVE
TO ANOTHER FIREHOUSE TO
FUNCTION WHICH INCREASES YOUR
RESPONSE TIME AND WHEN YOU'RE
RESPONDING FROM WITHIN THE FIRE
SERVICE SECONDS MATTER.
THE OTHER THING THAT HAS BEEN
REALLY GRATING FOR ME AND YOU
HEARD ME ADDRESS THIS A YEAR
AGO I'M GOING TO DO IT AGAIN
TONIGHT.
THE FIRE SERVICE IS ONE OF THE
PROFESSIONS THAT WAS SLOW TO
ACCEPT AND TO RECOGNIZE THAT
THEY WOULD BE BETTER IF WOMEN
WERE ALLOWED TO BE PART OF IT.
SO THE FIRE STATIONS WERE BUILT
WITHOUT THE IDEA THAT WOMEN
WOULD STAY THERE.
SO WE HAVE POWER STATIONS THAT
DO NOT HAVE APPROPRIATE
QUARTERS FOR FEMALE
FIREFIGHTERS.
THAT IS UNACCEPTABLE.
YOU'RE ONLY GOING TO FIX IT
WHEN YOU BUILD A NEW FIREHOUSE
BECAUSE THEN YOU CAN PROGRAM
ALL OF THAT IN SO ONE WAY OR
ANOTHER I'M GOING TO COME BACK
TO YOU IN NY TWENTY FIVE WITH
SOME PLAN TO GET FIRE STATION
NUMBER FOUR DONE AND THE EOC
DONE THIS YEAR.
I CAN'T SPEAK FOR WHAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE BUT I
WILL SAY THIS YEAR PROBABLY
BURST ANY BUBBLE THAT ANYONE
HAD THAT MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
MONEY WAS GOING TO PROVIDE THIS
MAJOR BOOST OF REVENUE FOR THE
CITY.
NOTHING HAS HAPPENED TO PROVEN
THAT THAT'S TRUE.
WE GET VERY LITTLE INFORMATION
ABOUT WHAT'S GOING ON WITH IT.
WE HAVE EXTENDED THE HOURS SO
PEOPLE CAN BUY WHATEVER THEY
WANT TO BUY OVER A LONGER
PERIOD OF TIME AND THAT HAS
RESULTED IN AN INCREASE OF ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
WE'LL TAKE IT.
BUT YOU CANNOT MAKE MAJOR
BUDGET DECISIONS ON THAT KIND
OF MONEY.
SO THAT'S WHY I PUT COINS IN A
JAR TO ILLUSTRATE THE POINT.
SO LAST YEAR I WAS REALLY
STRUGGLING TO LEARN ALL THE
ORGANIZATIONS AND FIGURE OUT
HOW THE PIECES FIT SO I DIDN'T
PROGRAM ANY MONEY.
WELL I'VE BEEN HERE EXTRA YEAR
NOW SO TONIGHT I HAVE PROGRAMED
SOME ADDITIONAL MONEY.
YESTERDAY WE HAD A MILESTONE
CURRENTS WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
THE GROUNDBREAKING FOR THE
KATHERINE STREET DEVELOPMENT ON
THE SURFACE IT MIGHT NOT SEE AS
IMPORTANT TO SOME PEOPLE BUT
FOR PEOPLE WHO LOOK LIKE ME WHO
HAVE ROOTS IN THIS CITY IT
MEANS A LOT.
SO THERE'S MONEY IN THIS BUDGET
NOT ONE TIME ON GOING TO
SUPPORT THE COMMUNITY SPACE AT
KATHERINE STREET BECAUSE IF WE
SAY WE'RE GOING TO GROW AS A
COMMUNITY THAT VALUES DIVERSITY
EQUITY AND INCLUSION THAT WE
GOT ACT LIKE IT AND THAT'S WHAT
THIS INVESTMENT MEANS.
WE'VE HEARD FROM THE SHELTERS
THEY STRUGGLE EVERY WINTER NO
MATTER HOW MUCH MONEY WE GIVE
THEM.
WE HAVE WINTER COLD, WE HAVE
SNOW BUT WE HAVE COLD WHICH I
DON'T LIKE BUT IT'S COLD.
WE WE NEED TO FIND A WAY TO
BETTER SUPPORT THE WINTER
SHELTERS.
SO THIS IS THE SORT OF DEFT
HANDLING OF BEING CREATIVE WITH
THE MONEY WE MET WITH DAN AND
WHAT WE'VE COME UP WITH WE'VE
ASKED THEM CAN YOU FIND A WAY
TO FOLD IN AN ELEMENT
OF SUBSTANCE ABUSE SUPPORT IN
THE WINTER SHELTER AND WE CAN
DO THAT.
SO THE ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS WILL REPRESENT
HELPING THAT PERSON BUT ALSO
FUNDING ALSO PROVIDING FUNDING
FOR THE SHELTER ITSELF.
AND I WANT TO SET THIS UP WHERE
THE CONTRACT IS RUNNING FROM
LIKE OCTOBER TO APRIL MARTY
WANTING TO KEEP ME OUT
OF PRISON SAYS THAT'S WITHIN
THE RULES.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
DO WANTING TO LEVERAGE THE
MONEY I HAVE FORMULATED A
PARTNERSHIP WITH MICHIGAN MED.
I BORE YOU WITH THE DETAILS BUT
ESSENTIALLY WE WANT TO PROVIDE
SUPPORT FOR PEOPLE THAT ARE
STRUGGLING WITH SUBSTANCE ABUSE
ISSUES FROM THE TIME THEY'RE
LEAVING THE HOSPITAL IF THEY
HAVE TO BE HOSPITALIZED TO GET
SETTLED BACK IN THEIR
AMBULATORY SETTING.
THAT'S WHAT THE ONE EIGHTY ONE
IS FOR.
THANKS TO DR. HILLIARD FOR HIS
HELP AND EVEN WITH DOING ALL
OF THAT, THERE IS ONE MILLION
DOLLARS UNTOUCHED LEFT FOR YOU
TO CONSIDER WHAT TO DO WITH IT
.
SO THANKS TO MARTY AND THE EXECE
TEAM, THE STAFF OF THE
GOVERNMENT WORKING WITH US TO
DEVELOP NY TWENTY FAST BUDGET,
THE QUESTION PROCESS WILL BE AS
ALWAYS YOU NEED TO SEND YOUR
QUESTIONS TO KIM BUSSEL MYANMA
PACHON, SARAH HIGGINS AND ME
AND EACH WEEK WE'LL GIVE YOU
BACK ANSWERS EVERYONE WILL SEE
ALL THE QUESTIONS AND EVERYONE
WILL SEE ALL OF THE ANSWERS
PAUSING BECAUSE YOU WHEN YOU DO
ALL THIS WITH NO NOTES YOU GOT
TO GET A RUN BACK MENTALLY AND
MAKE SURE YOU HAVEN'T FORGOTTEN
ANYTHING OF SIGNIFICANCE.
I THINK THAT'S EVERYTHING.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COME AND
RESERVED PUBLIC COMMENT.
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC AND RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS.
IN ALL INSTANCES WE'LL HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS ALAN
NEWMAN.
HELLO AND NEWMAN I LIVE AT TWO
FIVE SEVEN SEVEN NEWPORT, RHODE
I'M ON THE BOARD OF AVALON
HOUSING
IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN.
ONE OF THE TENANTS THERE WHO
HAD SPENT 13 AND A HALF YEARS
IN PRISON WANTED TO FORM AN
ORGANIZATION TO HELP PEOPLE
RETURN.
I VOLUNTEERED TO HELP AND I'VE
BEEN ITS CHAIR SINCE ITS
INCEPTION.
I'VE ALSO GOTTEN ON THE STATE
BOARD THAT HELPS PEOPLE RETURN
FROM INCARCERATION OFFENDER
SUCCESS.
WHEN I BEGAN I DIDN'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT CRIMINAL
JUSTICE.
I KNOW A LOT NOW AND IT'S
ABSOLUTELY AWFUL.
THE SYSTEM IS JUST GRAW IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN WASHTENAW
COUNTY HAD THE WORST RECIDIVISM
RATE IN THE STATE.
WE WERE FIFTY PERCENT HIGHER
THAN THE STATE AVERAGE.
A BRIGHTER WAY HAS EIGHT
EMPLOYEES.
ONLY ONE HAS NOT BEEN
INCARCERATED.
THE REST HAVE BEEN INCARCERATED
FOR A TOTAL OF ONE HUNDRED AND
FORTY FOUR YEARS.
THEY ARE ALL TRAINED ON PEER TO
PEER TRAUMA INFORMED COUNSELING
IF YOU DRIVE DOWN WASHTENAW
AVENUE NEAR BRACKMAN YOU WILL
SEE A TOWNHOUSE WITH A SHED
NEXT TO IT IN THAT HOUSE WAS A
PERSON WHO WAS INCARCERATED FOR
FORTY SEVEN YEARS.
THERE'S A PERSON IN THERE
THAT'S BEEN INCARCERATED FOR
FORTY YEARS AND THERE'S A
NINETEEN YEAR OLD MAN IN THAT
AS A SNOW BLOWER AND A LAWN
MOWER AND THOSE PEOPLE CLEAR
THE NEIGHBORS SIDEWALKS IN THE
WINTER.
THEY MOW THE LAWN IN THE SUMMER
SO WHAT DO WE DO?
WE HELP PEOPLE MEET THEIR
QUALITY OF LIFE GOALS AND OUR
PEOPLE MANY OF THEM ARE
FRIGHTENED, FINANCIALLY FRAGILE
AND EMERGENCY FUNDING IS
CRITICAL AND WITH YOU YOUR
SUPPORT, YOUR FUNDING FIRST AND
LAST MONTH'S RENT SECURITY
DEPOSITS WE JUST HAD A MEMBER
WHO'S GOT A GOOD JOB IN HIS CAR
BROKE DOWN.
HE HAS TO HAVE A CAR FOR HIS
JOB WITH YOUR HELP WE WERE ABLE
TO LOAN HIM FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
SO GREATLY APPRECIATE WHAT
YOU'VE DONE AND I PERSONALLY
WANT TO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRIAN
GARRIGA
.
GOOD EVENING.
CITY COUNCIL MAYOR TAYLOR.
MY NAME IS BRIAN SINGER.
I'M A LIFELONG WASHTENAW COUNTY
RESIDENT.
I'M CURRENTLY LIVING IN
YPSILANTI BUT I WAS BORN,
RAISED AND EDUCATED IN ANN
ARBOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO INTRODUCE
MYSELF AS THE INCOMING
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR ANN
ARBOR FOR PUBLIC POWER.
I THINK IT IS MY FIFTEENTH DAY
ON THE JOB FOR TO BE TWO AND
WHAT IS ALREADY ABUNDANTLY
CLEAR TO ME IS THAT THIS
ORGANIZATION AND EVERYONE IN IT
IS DRIVEN, DEDICATED AND
PASSIONATE ABOUT OUR SHARED
GOAL OF CREATING A PUBLICLY
OWNED MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC
UTILITY IN ANN ARBOR, ONE THAT
IS CONNECTED TO THE REGIONAL
GRID AND SUPPLIERS ALL OF THE
CITY'S ELECTRICITY NEEDS ONE
THAT IS RELIABLE, AFFORDABLE,
DEMOCRATICALLY CONTROLLED AND
SOURCED FROM ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT.
RENEWABLE ENERGY IS ALSO MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT MUNICIPAL
IZATION IS SIMPLY THE ONLY WAY
TO ACHIEVE TWO ZERO GOALS RIGHT
HERE IN ANN ARBOR I WAS
EXTREMELY HEARTENED BY THE
APRIL 4TH TOWN ALL FEATURING
OSSI DIRECTOR DR. STOLTZ AND A
UP TO PRESIDENT WHAT DURING
THAT EVENT HAD AN AIR
OF COLLABORATION THAT I I'M
EXCITED TO SEE CONTINUE
THROUGHOUT THE FOLLOWING MONTHS
AND YEARS.
SO I COME HERE TONIGHT HOPEFUL
AND LOOKING FORWARD TO BUILDING
RELATIONSHIPS WITH EACH ONE
OF YOU.
WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR YOU TO
SIGN ON TO THE MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY TODAY OR
TOMORROW THOUGH YOU ARE MORE
THAN WELCOME TO IF YOU'D LIKE
PARADA.
WE'RE SIMPLY ASKING TO YOU TO
ENSURE THAT THE PROPOSED
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
CHARTER AMENDMENT IS DESIGNED
SO THAT IT LEAVES THE DOOR OPEN
FOR FUTURE ENERGY WITH THE
MUNICIPAL GRID THAT DISTRIBUTES
POWER TO THE WHOLE CITY.
I'M ALSO VERY PLEASED AND WANT
TO THANK YOU ALL AS WELL AS THE
ADMINISTRATOR THAT THE PHASE
TWO FEASIBILITY STUDY WILL BE
FUNDED IN THE FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY FIVE BUDGET AND I TRUST
IT WILL BE SO WITH THE HONEST
INTENT TO PAVE THE WAY FOR THE
POSSIBILITY OF FULL MUNICIPAL
CAUSATION.
THIS IS WHAT THE PEOPLE OF ANN
ARBOR WHO ARE SICK AND TIRED
OF OVERPRICE WILDLY UNRELIABLE
DIRTY COAL POWERED ELECTRICITY
DESERVE.
THANK YOU ALL SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM GRANT
.
HELLO COUNCIL.
I ASK YOU TO USE THE SAME SCOPE
THAT THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR WAS
TALKING ABOUT.
WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD WHEN YOU
LISTEN TO WHAT I HAVE TO SAY.
MY NAME IS ADAM GRANT.
I WORK IN HIPSLEY.
I'M THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
RIGHT AWAY AND I'M HERE TO GIVE
VOICE TO THE NEED FOR RISING
HOPE FOR HOUSING AND
INITIATIVES LIKE IT GIVEN THE
FACT THAT THIS IS FUNDED FROM
THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX THOUGH
IT DOESN'T BRING IN AS MUCH AS
WE'D LIKE IT IS A FORM
OF PAYMENTS GIVING FOR
SOMETHING THAT MAY OTHERWISE
HAVE BEEN A HARD LIFT FROM
GENERAL FUNDS.
I WANT TO SHARE SOMETHING WITH
YOU THAT I DON'T THINK ANYONE
ELSE CAN IN THIS SITUATION
SOMETHING THAT CUTS TO THE WHY
THE PROGRAM LIKE THIS I'VE BEEN
GOING INTO OWN FEDERAL
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY FOR THE
LAST SEVERAL MONTHS TO
FACILITATE THE IDEA OF REENTRY
CURRICULUM TO THE MEN THERE AND
WE JUST DID OUR POST
COHORT EVALUATION IS ONE OF THE
LAST QUESTIONS WE ASKED WAS
WHAT ASPECTS OF THE TRAINING
DID YOU FIND MOST VALUABLE AND
IMPACTFUL TO WHICH ONE
GENTLEMAN ANSWERED QUOTE
HEARING AND WITNESSING THE
ACTUAL CARING FOR ME
SPECIFICALLY AND MY FUTURE.
IT'S VERY POWERFUL TO FEEL THAT
THERE ARE PEOPLE OUT THERE WHO
TRULY CARE ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS
FOR ME UNQUOTE.
MOST PEOPLE FEEL UNCARED FOR
WHEN THEY ARE INCARCERATED EVEN
WITH FAMILY AND FRIENDS.
THOSE FOND FEELINGS ARE OFTEN
TETHERED TO BEING A BURDEN.
PRISON IS DESIGNED TO PUNISH
AND SEQUESTER MEANING IT IS
DESIGNED TO MAKE YOU FEEL
SEPARATE AND LESS THAN IT DOES
WHAT IT'S DESIGNED TO DO.
THIS FEELING USUALLY CONTINUES
ONCE RELEASED WHEN SEEKING
EMPLOYMENT, HOUSING, EVEN
EDUCATION.
IT IS COMMON PRACTICE TO ASK
HAVE YOU BEEN CONVICTED OF A
FELONY AND THEN LEGALLY HOLD AN
HONEST ANSWER AGAINST THEM
DENYING THEM BASIC NECESSITIES.
WHAT YOU ALL DID LAST YEAR WITH
RISING HOUSING WHETHER YOU
FULLY KNEW IT OR NOT WAS WHAT
YOU WE DID FOR THAT GENTLEMAN
IN MARYLAND.
YOU TOLD PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
TOLD THEY'RE NOT GOOD ENOUGH TO
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR, SOMEONE
CARES ABOUT THEM.
YOU'VE TOLD THEM THAT THERE'S A
CHANCE THEY CAN PUT THEIR LIFE
BACK TOGETHER.
YOU'VE TOLD THEM THAT THEY'RE
THEY HAVE PAID THEIR DEBT AND
THEIR WELL-BEING MATTERS.
I WANT YOU TO THINK ABOUT
SOMETHING.
I HOPE THAT YOU HAVE THE
COURAGE TO CONTINUE INVESTING
IN OUR COMMUNITIES IN SUCH A
WAY BECAUSE AFTER SERVING
TWENTY SEVEN YEARS FOR A BANK
ROBBERY I COULD BE ANY OF YOUR
NEIGHBORS WHETHER I'M IN THE
HOUSE NEXT DOOR TO YOU OR
FORCED TO SLEEP ON THE PARK ON
THE CORNER.
THANK YOU.
NEXT YEAR IS A CERTAIN HI MY
NAME IS MATT AND I LIVE AT SIX
FIFTEEN WEST JOHN STREET AND
I'M PHD STUDENT.
I STUDIED THE ELECTRIC POWER
SYSTEM TWO WEEKS AGO.
I ALSO ATTENDED THE MENTIONED
TOWN HALL EVENT WHICH WAS PUT
ON BY BOTH THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND POWER.
THE PURPOSE OF THIS EVENT WAS
TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC ABOUT
BOTH THE SUSTAINABLE ELECTRIC
UTILITY OR ACSU AND MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY OR MIYU.
THE PURPOSE WAS TO DISCUSS HOW
THESE TWO OPTIONS ARE DIFFERENT
BUT ALSO TO SEE HOW THEY CAN BE
COMPLEMENTARY AT THIS VERY
EVENT.
BOTH SIDES EXPRESSED THAT ONE
PROMISING POTENTIAL PATH TO
HELP THE CITY REACH THEIR
CLIMATE GOALS IS TO FIRST
ESTABLISH AN ICU AND THEN
EVENTUALLY TRANSITION THIS
ENTITY TO A FULL AND YOU I'M
HERE TO VOICE MY CONCERN OR THE
SPECIFIC LANGUAGE WHICH IS
BEING PROPOSED FOR AN AMENDMENT
TO THE CITY CHARTER AS PART
OF A BALLOT PROPOSAL FOR THE
SEIU THE LANGUAGE SPECIFYING
THAT THE SEIU WILL BE OPT IN
FEE BASED AND ONLY DELIVER
RENEWABLE ENERGY IS SIMPLY
OVERLY RESTRICTIVE AND
SPECIFICALLY EXCLUDES AN AVENUE
WHICH IF IT WERE TO BE
ESTABLISHED AS THE SOLE SERVING
UTILITY WOULD NOT BE OPT IN BY
DEFINITION GIVEN THE DISCUSSION
I HEARD TWO WEEKS AGO, THIS IS
EXACTLY THE TYPE OF AMENDMENT
THAT THE AMENDMENT TO THE
CHARTER THAT THE CITY SHOULD
HOPE TO AVOID ONE THAT IS
OVERLY SPECIFIC AND WILL
REQUIRE ADDITIONAL WORK DOWN
THE LINE IN ORDER TO AMEND THE
CHARTER AGAIN IF THE DECISION
TO PURSUE THIS POSITION IS
DECIDED UPON.
I BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE PLENTY
OF OTHER MEANS TO EDUCATING
VOTERS ON THE SPECIFICS OF SEIU
BUT THESE RESTRICTIONS SHOULD
NOT BE IN THE CITY CHARTER.
I WANT TO CONCLUDE BY SAYING
THAT THE BACK TO THE MUNICIPAL
IZATION IS HARD ENOUGH ALREADY
WE'RE GOING UP AGAINST DTT
WHICH IS A POWERFUL CORPORATE
POWERFUL CORPORATION.
THE CITY NEEDS
TO CAREFULLY
CONSIDER THE LONG TERM
IMPLICATIONS OF EACH STEP IN
THIS PROCESS AND NOT MAKE IT
ANY HARDER THAN IT NEEDS TO BE.
I BELIEVE I BELIEVE THAT
REVISING THE LANGUAGE IS A
PERFECT OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY
TO DO SO.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT IS CALLED CARL MARTIN
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
KORVETTES
.
GOOD EVENING AND FIFTH GRADE WE
WERE TAUGHT THAT THERE WERE
FIVE BASIC QUESTIONS NEWSPAPER
ARTICLES HAD TO ANSWER WHO BUT
WHERE, WHY AND WHEN WHY IS
OFTEN OMITTED IN HISTORICAL
EVENTS AND THE HOLOCAUST AS
PRESENTED TO ANN ARBOR STUDENTS
EITHER OLD MYTHS OR DISTORTS
THIS BASIC QUESTION FROM A TEXT
SUPPLIED BY THE ANN ARBOR BOARD
OF EDUCATION WE READ THE NAZIS
CLAIM THAT ALL NON PEOPLES
ESPECIALLY JEWISH PEOPLE WERE
INFERIOR.
THIS IS A DISHONEST CLAIM.
IN HIS BOOK UNFINISHED VICTORY,
BRITISH AUTHOR SIR ARTHUR
BRYANS WRITES THAT ALTHOUGH
JEWS REPRESENTED LESS THAN ONE
PERCENT OF THE GERMAN
POPULATION, THEY CONTROLLED
FIFTY SEVEN PERCENT OF THE
METAL TRADE.
TWENTY TWO PERCENT OF GRAIN.
THIRTY NINE PERCENT OF TEXTILE
TRADE MORE THAN 50 PERCENT
OF THE BERLIN CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE WAS JEWISH AS WERE
AN AMAZING TWELVE HUNDRED
OF THE FIFTEEN
DURING THE
WEIMAR REPUBLIC, THE AVERAGE
INCOME OF JEWS WAS THREE TIMES
THAT OF NON JEWS.
THESE FACTS AND MANY MORE FLY
DIRECTLY INTO THE FACE OF THE
CHARGE OF JEWS WERE SOMEHOW
INFERIOR.
THEY CLEARLY WEREN'T BUT FITS
INTO THE FALSE NARRATIVE THAT
NATIONAL SOCIALISTS TARGET JEWS
BECAUSE OF WHO THEY WERE RATHER
THAN WHAT THEY DID.
WE SEE THAT TODAY IN GAZA.
HAMAS IS SIMILARLY BLAMED FOR
TARGETING JEWS AS JEWS RATHER
THAN RESISTING THE 70 FIVE YEAR
OLD GENOCIDE OF PALESTINE BY
THE JEWISH STATE.
SO WHAT'S THE REAL ANSWER TO
WHY JEWISH PEOPLE WERE TARGETED
BY NATIONAL SOCIALISTS?
PETER WINTER SUPPLIES US WITH
CLUES IN HIS BOOK THE SIX
MILLION FACT OR FICTION HE
STATES THAT JEWS AND WINMAR
GERMANY WERE ASSOCIATED WITH
EXTREME CAPITALIST
EXPLOITATION.
BENTON HARBOR AND BRADBERRY
ENLIGHTENS US FURTHER IN HIS
BOOK THE MYTH OF GERMAN
VILLAINY.
IN IT HE EXPLAINS HOW JEWS WERE
THE ARCHITECTS OF THE OF THE
VESI TREATY WHICH BROUGHT
FINANCIAL RUIN TO POSTWAR
GERMANY AND AND REMINDED
READERS THAT IT WAS JEWISH
ZIONISTS WHO BROUGHT THE US
INTO THE GREAT WAR AND SEALED
GERMANY'S FATE.
IT MAKES MORE SENSE TO
UNDERSTAND THESE REASONS,
EXPLAINED GERMAN FEAR AND
DISTRUST OF THE JEWS LIVING
WITHIN ITS BORDERS THAN IT DOES
TO MERELY CLAIM THAT JEWS WERE
HATED SIMPLY BECAUSE OF WHO
THEY WERE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ROGER
KOSALA.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ROGER.
I AM A HOMEOWNER ON THE WEST
SIDE OF ANN ARBOR AND A RATE
PAYER FOR DTG GOING BACK TWENTY
FIVE YEARS AND I'M HERE TO TALK
ABOUT THE UTILITY ISSUE HERE
BECAUSE I DON'T WANT TO BREATHE
WILDFIRES SMOKE AGAIN NEXT
SUMMER.
I READ IN THE PAPER TODAY THAT
THE CALIFORNIA UTILITY GRID WAS
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT RENEWABLE
FOR 30 OF THE PAST 38 DAYS.
CALIFORNIA BETTER THAN ASKED IF
THEY COULD DO IT.
SO CAN WE AND I WANT TO ADDRESS
THE MCU AND SEE YOU UTILITIES
AND OTHER SPEAKERS HAVE
MENTIONED AT FIRST BY
APPRECIATING I WORK IN
COMMUNICATIONS.
I WORKED ON A LOT
OF ENVIRONMENTAL CAMPAIGNS.
PROGRESS ISN'T EASY AND TO
APPRECIATE HOW FAR WE'VE COME
WITH COMMUNITY BASED GROUPS AND
THE LEADERSHIP OF THE COUNCIL
HERE PUTTING CLIMATE ON THE
BALLOT, PUTTING OUR MONEY WHERE
OUR MOUTH IS PASSING KNOWLEDGE
WAS HUGE AND I KNOW IS IN
POLITICS NOT EASY TO ASK THE
VOTERS FOR TAX INCREASE.
I APPRECIATE YOUR LEADERSHIP.
APPRECIATE THE LEADERSHIP
OF INCLUDING THE FEASIBILITY
STUDY FOR MUNICIPAL POSITION IN
THE BUDGET THIS YEAR FOR THE
PHASE TWO I THAT'S HUGELY
IMPORTANT AND I THINK THE ISSUE
THAT'S BEING DISCUSSED THAT AS
I UNDERSTAND IT WILL CLEAR SOME
LOGJAMS AND OBSTACLES TO MORE
WIDESPREAD ADOPTION OF SOLAR
POWER IS A TERRIFIC IDEA BUT IT
WOULD NOT BE TERRIFIC AS
PREVIOUS SPEAKERS HAVE
REFERENCED IF WE CLEAR THE
LOGJAM THERE BUT PUT LOGJAMS IN
FRONT OF THE MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
AND I THINK WHAT'S IMPORTANT
FOR COUNCIL TO HEAR AND YOU
WILL HEAR TONIGHT AND SURFACE
THAT THE ENERGY COMMISSION IS
THERE'S NOT ALIGNMENT AT THIS
POINT AS WITH ALL THE
STAKEHOLDERS AS TO WHAT THAT
BEST LANGUAGE IS TO PUT IN THE
CHARTER THINGS LIKE OPT IN AND
FEE FOR SERVICE DON'T SOUND BAD
IN THEMSELVES BUT IF THAT
THAT'S NOT HOW YOU LEGALLY OR
ACCURATELY DESCRIBE A
UNIVERSITY UTILITY AND I THINK
THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL CAN PLAY
A REALLY IMPORTANT ROLE AT THIS
STAGE OF THE PROCESS IN FINDING
OUT WHERE THAT ALIGNMENT IS OFF
AND HOW WE CAN FIX THAT SO THAT
WE CAN MOVE FORWARD THE WAY WE
ALL WANT TO WITH CARBON FREE
ELECTRIC UTILITY.
WHAT THIS THIS ISSUE IS BEING
VERY CLOSELY OBSERVED.
IT HAS IMPLICATIONS NOT JUST
HERE BUT FOR OTHER COMMUNITIES.
IF WE CAN SET THIS EXAMPLE AND
MAKE REAL PROGRESS ON THE
CLIMATE AND ABOUT YOU.
BUT EVERY TIME THE OBSERVER I'M
THINKING YOU KNOW, WE STARTED A
CAMPAIGN FOR PUBLIC POWER AND
WE'RE SUPPORTING LOCAL
JOURNALISM BECAUSE HERE'S
ANOTHER FULL PAGE AD FROM VTE
THEY PAID FOR BY WE'RE GOING TO
BE SO CLEAN, SO GREEN, THE
CLEANEST IN HISTORY BUT LET'S
BE CLEAR THE MINUTE WE SLOW
DOWN OR TAKE OUR FOOT OFF THE
ACCELERATOR WILL PUT ITS FOOT
ON THE BRAKE AND WITHOUT AND I
THINK IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE
FUNDING THIS FEASIBILITY STUDY
WITHOUT A CLEAR ALTERNATIVE
THAT THE PEOPLE CAN TAKE BACK
THIS FRANCHISE PROGRESS ON
RENEWABLE IS GOING TO BE VERY,
VERY DIFFICULT.
SO IT'S GREAT THE FEASIBILITY
STUDIES, THE BUDGET I URGE YOU
TO SUPPORT THAT AND THEN THE
FLYSPECK THIS LANGUAGE AND FIND
OUT HOW WE CAN GET THAT ALIGN
AND WORK TOGETHER FOR
CARBON FREE POWER IN THE
FUTURE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARISSA
MAYER.
KERTTU
MARCUCCI ON THE PHONE.
I'M RUNNING THREE THREE FOUR
STAR SIX ON MEET YOUR PHONE.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN.
HELLO.
OK, GREAT.
MY NAME IS MIKE MECURIO.
I'M IN ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS AND
I'M CALLING FOR MANY OF THE
SAME REASONS THAT PREVIOUS
SPEAKERS HAVE TALKED ABOUT
PRIOR TO ME I AM A MEMBER
OF ANN ARBOR FOR PUBLIC POWER
AND I'M GOING TO VOICE MY
SUPPORT FOR A INNOCENTLY OWNED
PUBLIC UTILITY.
I BELIEVE THAT THE LANGUAGE IN
THE PROPOSED SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY NEEDS TO BE REVISED FOR
THE SAME REASONS AND BEFORE ME
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE OFFICE
AND THE CONCERN ABOUT FINANCES
AND I WANT TO ENSURE THAT THE
LANGUAGE IS REVISED SO THAT A
NATO IS POSSIBLE EITHER RIGHT
NOW OR IN THE FUTURE AND I
RECOGNIZE THAT EVERYONE HAS
SORT OF SAID A LOT OF THINGS
ALONG THE SAME LINES BUT LITTLE
BIT MORE EXPERTIZE THAN ME.
SO I'LL KEEP IT SHORT.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT I'M REALLY HAPPY ABOUT THE
PHASE TWO FEASIBILITY STUDY
MOVING FORWARD AND I HOPE THAT
WE CAN CONTINUE TO HAVE A
COLLABORATIVE WORKING
RELATIONSHIP ON THESE TOPICS IN
THE FUTURE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MILTON
BAKER.
HI.
MY NAME IS MILT BAKER AND I
LIVE AT TWENTY GREENE ROAD IN
ANN ARBOR AND I WANT TO MAKE
SOME COMMENTS ON YOU BALLOT
PROPOSAL JUST TO SOME
BACKGROUND I HAPPEN TO HAVE
SOLAR IN MY HOUSE AND BATTERY
BACKUP AND AND I USE IT TO
CHARGE AND TV AND I ONLY SAY
THAT BECAUSE I'VE SEEN THE
POWER OF THIS TECHNOLOGY AND
IT'S REALLY FANTASTIC AND I ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT SUPPORT BCU AND
WITH ADOPTION WE'RE GOING TO
DRIVE THE PRICE OF THESE THINGS
DOWN.
BUT THE QUESTION I HAVE IS THE
CONSULTANTS HAS TOLD US THAT
THE SEIU WILL HELP IN ARBER TO
GET TO ABOUT BE ABLE TO
GENERATE ABOUT 10 PERCENT OF AN
ARBOR'S ELECTRICAL USE.
SO HOW ARE WE GOING TO GET TO
THE OTHER 90 PERCENT?
WELL, WE'RE GOING TO DO THAT
WITH SOMETHING LIKE AMMU AND I
THINK THAT THAT WHAT I'M
WORRIED ABOUT IS THAT AS OTHER
PEOPLE HAVE SAID, THE BUDGET
THE PROPOSAL ACTUALLY PRECLUDES
THE USE OF NAMU.
SO ON THE ONE HAND WE'RE
FUNDING A STUDY THAT IS GOING
TO LOOK AT THE FEASIBILITY
OF AN MCU.
ON THE OTHER HAND, WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A BALLOT PROPOSAL
THAT ACTUALLY GOES IN THE
OPPOSITE DIRECTION AND WILL NOT
ALLOW THERE TO BE NAMU.
OTHERS HAVE TALKED ABOUT WHY
THAT IS THE OPT IN PROVISION
RENEWABLES AND FEE-BASED.
I DON'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT THAT
BUT I JUST WANT TO ASK YOU DOES
IT MAKE SENSE TO THINK THAT WAY
THAT WHEN I GO AROUND AND ASK
PEOPLE WHY IN THE WORLD WOULD
WE NOT WRITE THE BALLOT
PROPOSAL SO IT COULD
ACCOMMODATE BOTH?
THE ANSWER I GET IS WELL WE'RE
GOING TO DO ONE AND THEN DOWN
THE ROAD WE'LL DO A SECOND ONE
.
AND DOES THAT MAKE SENSE TO
YOU?
I MEAN IT'S SORT OF LIKE IF
YOU'RE GOING
TO BUILD A HOUSE
AND YOU KNOW YOU MIGHT EXPAND
IN FIVE YEARS, WHAT ARE YOU
GOING TO DO?
YOU'RE GOING TO PUT IN SOME
INFRASTRUCTURE SO IT MAKES IT
VERY EASY TO EASE INTO THAT.
SO MY CALL TO ACTION FOR THIS
COUNCIL IS I THINK YOU SHOULD
DEMAND THAT THIS PROPOSAL THIS
BALLOT PROPOSAL IS WRITTEN SO
IT COULD ACCOMMODATE BOTH SO WE
CAN DO IN SITU IF IT TURNS OUT
THAT THE MCU IS SOMETHING
THAT'S FEASIBLE, THEN AT THAT
POINT IN TIME WE CAN ROLL UP
OUR SLEEVES AND JUST ROLL INTO
THAT.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME AND ATTENTION.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD'S
KATHY GRISWOLD'S
OUR
NEXT SPEAKER IS GREG CRAIG
WOODRING
.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND
COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS GREG WOODRING.
I LIVE AT TEN TWELVE WEST CROSS
AND I'M THE PRESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC POWER.
I'D LIKE TO COME HERE AND
REITERATE WHAT SO MANY OTHER
PEOPLE I'VE SAID ALREADY TODAY
AND SAY THAT FIRST OF ALL I'M
VERY HAPPY AND EXCITED BY THE
FACT THAT THE PHASE TWO
FEASIBILITY STUDY IS WITHIN THE
CITY BUDGET AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO THE RESULTS OF THAT AND
MOVING FORWARD WITH EXCITING
AND NECESSARY WORK I WAS ONE
OF THE SPEAKERS IN THE TOWN
HALL THAT WAS REFERENCED
EARLIER IN THIS MEETING AND I
LEFT THAT FEELING A STRONG
SENSE OF COLLABORATION AND HOPE
FOR FUTURE WORK WITH THE CITY.
I UNDERSTAND THAT SOME OF OUR
PUSHBACK HERE MIGHT BE SLIGHTLY
UNCOMFORTABLE.
I'M SURE THAT A LOT OF WORK
WENT INTO CRAFTING THE CITY
CHARTER AMENDMENT LANGUAGE AND
IT MAY FEEL NOT COLLABORATIVE
FOR US TO BE PROVIDING THIS
PUSH BACK.
AND I'D LIKE TO SAY THAT THAT
IS NOT OUR INTENTION.
WE HAVE EVERY DESIRE AND
INTENTION TO WORK WITH YOU.
WE WANT TO SEE THE CITY'S GOALS
SUCCEED.
WE WANT TO SEE YOU SUCCEED.
WE ARE SIMPLY ASKING THAT THE
CHARTER LANGUAGE BE WRITTEN IN
SUCH A WAY THAT IT WOULD NOT
REQUIRE FURTHER AMENDMENT IN
ORDER TO ALLOW FOR A MUNICIPAL
UTILITY TO BE CREATED .
WE UNDERSTAND WHY THE LANGUAGE
HAS OPT-IN PROVISIONS 100
PERCENT RENEWABLE PROVISION AND
THE FEE-BASED PROVISION.
HOWEVER, I WILL POINT OUT THAT
THERE ARE MANY OTHER ASPECTS
OF AN SEIYU THAT ARE NOT IN THE
CITY CHARTER LANGUAGE.
THOSE ASPECTS WILL BE FLESHED
OUT THROUGH A CITY ORDINANCE
AFTER THE FACT.
THOSE ASPECTS WE ARE CALLING
OUT THIS OPT IN BE BASED IN
RENEWABLE ENERGY PROVISION
COULD BE IN THAT ORDINANCE
INSTEAD WE CAN WRITE THAT
LANGUAGE IN SUCH A WAY THAT IT
IS ABLE TO ENCOMPASS BOTH AND
THAT IS SIMPLY ALL WE ARE
ASKING FOR.
SO WE HOPE THAT WE CAN WORK
TOGETHER COLLABORATIVELY MOVING
FORWARD AND CONTINUE THIS
STRONG SPIRIT OF COLLABORATION
AS WE MOVE TOWARDS OUR SHARED
GOAL OF 100 PERCENT RENEWABLE
POWER FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOHN WALKER
,THE EVENING COUNCIL.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE.
MY NAME IS JOHN WALKER.
I'M A MEMBER OF A RIGHT AWAY AS
YOU HEARD EARLIER THAT IT IS AN
INCREDIBLE INSTITUTION AND IT
PROVIDES USEFUL AND MEANINGFUL
SERVICE TO RETURN CITIZENS.
MUCH OF WHAT YOU HEARD TONIGHT
ABOUT ME DIRECTLY AND
SPECIFICALLY I AM A RETURNING
CITIZEN.
I SERVE FOR SIX YEARS IN A
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT
OF CORRECTION.
I AM A BENEFICIARY OF THE BLUE
AND WHITE HOUSE ON WASHTENAW.
I AM THE HANDS THEY HELP SHOVEL
THE SNOW.
I WASN'T HERE IN THE SUMMERTIME
SO I HAVEN'T CUTTING THE GRASS
BUT MY INTEREST AND CONCERN
HERE IS FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE
HOUSE RISING HOME HOUSING IN
PARTICULAR BECAUSE AS YOU CAN
IMAGINE DOING AS MUCH TIME AS I
DID AND THEN BEING DISPLACED IN
A WAY IN A MANNER WHERE I DON'T
FIT ANYWHERE ONE OF THE
BENEFITS OF INSITUTE I MEAN
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE A BRIDE AWAY
THEY EMBRACE ME AND ONE OF THE
REASONS THEY EMBRACED ME AND
YOU HEARD EARLIER IS BECAUSE
OF THE ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY
FOUR YEARS OF INCARCERATED
SERVICE IN THAT ESTABLISHMENT
AND BECAUSE THAT'S TRUE WHEN WE
REACH BACK OUT TO THOSE WHO ARE
SIMILARLY SITUATED, THE VALUE
OF THAT CONNECTION IS PRICELESS
.
I'M HERE TO ASK YOU FIRST
OF ALL THANK YOU FOR ALL THAT
YOU'VE DONE FOR INSTITUTIONS,
FOR ORGANIZATIONS OR AGENCIES
THAT HELP RETURNING CITIZENS
WITHOUT UNCERTAIN OF WHERE WE
WOULD BE POSITIONED.
BUT INCREDIBLY AND IN CLOSING
I'D LIKE TO SAY THIS I AM
CONFIDENT IN YOUR ADVANCED
PLANNING AND ACTIONS TOWARDS
THIS ISSUE.
WE ALL UNDERSTAND A COLLECTIVE
ACTION IS KEY TO DRIVING
POSITIVE CHANGE.
THEREFORE YOUR CONTINUED
SUPPORT OF THE RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING PROGRAM AND A BRIGHTER
WAY TO PROVIDE SOCIAL SUPPORT
AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS BEST
SERVES WASHTENAW COUNTY AND
JUST EXPECTED CITIZENS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARGARET
KOOKIE
, MARGARET GOULDEN,
MARGARET GOODLEY PHONE NUMBER
NINE FOUR TO FOUR STAR SIX FROM
YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
YES WE CAN BLEEDING BILLY AND
UPCOMING PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
AT TWENTY FIVE TWENTY FIVE IN
OUR FACILITY ROAD.
I AM ASKING THAT WHEN THIS
PROPOSAL WILL COME FOR APPROVAL
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL WILL
REJECT A CHANGE IN REZONING FOR
THIS PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT FROM
OFFICE TO RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT.
I WOULD LIKE TO BUILD A VERY
EXTENSIVE FIVE STOREY BUILDING
TO TWENTY FIVE UNIT APARTMENTS
IN AN AREA THAT IS ALREADY
IMPACTED AND PROBABLY APPROVE
AND PENDING APARTMENT AND HOTEL
DEVELOPMENT WHEN I WOULD ANY
ONE TO THREE TO FIVE ZONE AREA
THIS IS NEAR I NINETY FOUR IS
HEAVILY IMPACTED BY TRAFFIC
DAILY AND WORD DURING FOOTBALL
SEASON.
ALL OF THESE DEVELOPMENTS ARE
OCCURRING WITHIN ONE TO THREE
MILES OF RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY.
I LIVE ACROSS THE STREET FROM
ONE OF TWO RESIDENTIAL
COMMUNITIES ON OPRAH THERE IS
ANOTHER RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET IN OUR
FACILITY DOWN THE STREET ARE
VERY LOVING HOMES AS WELL AS
ANOTHER RESIDENTIAL AREA.
THIS HAS THE POTENTIAL TO BE
NOTHING MORE THAN A RENTAL FOR
UPCOMING SPORTING EVENTS.
SO I'M ASKING THE CITY COUNCIL
TO PLEASE DON'T CHANGE ZONING
FROM THE RESIDENT TO SAVE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND TO KEEP THE
TRAFFIC WARDEN SAID IT IS
ALREADY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JAMES
AUSBORN
OF I'M HERE TO SPEAK
ABOUT SOMETHING THAT'S NOT VERY
CONTROVERSIAL.
IT'S A THANK YOU FOR DROPPING.
I'M SORRY.
THANK YOU FOR WAIVING THE DROP
OFF FEE LAST WINTER AFTER SOME
STORMS.
I MADE USE OF THAT.
UNFORTUNATELY I DISCOVERED THAT
THE CITY'S WEBSITE IS LACKING.
I WENT TO ON A WEBSITE TO SEE
WHAT THE STANDARDS WERE BECAUSE
I DIDN'T WANT TO SHOW UP WITH A
LOAD OF TREE BRANCHES AND BE
TURNED AWAY.
THE WEBSITE SAID ACCEPTABLE
DROP OFF ITEMS AGGRESSING
LEAVES, MIXED YARD TRIMMINGS,
WOODCHIPS, FOOD WASTE AND
BRANCHES UP TO SIX INCHES.
THAT'S IT BRANCHES TO SIX
INCHES.
NOTHING ABOUT THE LENGTH
OF THESE BRANCHES AND EVEN
THOUGH THE CURBSIDE PART OF THE
WEB PAGE SAID THEY HAVE TO BE
SHORTER THAN FOUR FEET THAT IN
A WAY I WENT TO THE COMPETITION
YARD TO FIND OUT AND WHAT I
LEARNED WAS THAT THE BRANCHES
DON'T HAVE TO BE SORT FOUR
FEET.
THEY COULD BE 10 OR 11 FEET AS
LONG AS THEY'RE UNDER SIX
INCHES.
BUT THEY ALSO ACCEPT LOGS THE
LOGS COULD BE UP TO 12 INCHES
IN DIAMETER AS LONG AS THEY'RE
SHORTER THAN TWO FEET.
BUT THAT WAS NOT ON THE WEBPAGE
.
IT'S VERY BENEFICIAL TO BE ABLE
TO GET RID OF LOGS AND DO NOT
HAVE TO CUT THINGS UP AS MUCH
.
SO I WROTE A NICE LETTER TO THE
UPPER MANAGEMENT OF THE CITY
AND EXPLAINING THIS I WROTE A
LETTER ON APRIL 18TH OF 2003
BUT I NEVER GOT A RESPONSE
WHICH WAS DISAPPOINTING NOR WAS
THE WEB PAGE EVER FIXED
SATISFACTORILY ONCE AGAIN THIS
YEAR ANOTHER STORM DAMAGED AND
I HAVE STUFF TO TAKE TO THE WEB
MEAN TO THE DUMP AND I WENT TO
THE COMPOST YARD AGAIN TO FIND
OUT WHAT THEIR STANDARDS ARE
BECAUSE I DON'T WANT TO BE
TURNED AWAY AND THEY HAVEN'T
CHANGED.
BUT THE WEB PAGE HASN'T CHANGED
EITHER.
SO WHAT I'M ASKING IS THAT THE
CITY COUNCIL HAVE THE
MANAGEMENT OF THE CITY IMPROVE
THE WEB PAGE.
IT'S PRETTY SIMPLE ACTUALLY.
SO TAKE VERY LONG TO END ON A
POSITIVE NOTE OF I THINK THE
CITY PARKS AND POOLS ARE
EXCELLENT AND THE HIGHLIGHT
OF ALL THAT IS THE OR GO CANOE
LIBRARY AND THE RAPIDS THAT
THEY HAVE.
I ENJOY IT QUITE A BIT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOSEN SLB
AS A FUNNY HELLO ANN ARBOR.
UM MY NAME IS DR. MOJGAN SLB
ESFAHANI AND I AM RUNNING FOR
ANOTHER CITY COUNCIL IN WARD
FOUR CURRENTLY SO FAR I AM THE
ONLY ONE THAT'S ON THE BALLOT.
I'M THE ONLY CANDIDATE ON THE
BALLOT HAVING SPOKEN TO
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE ON A
UNKNOWABLES STREET.
I CAN SAFELY TELL YOU THAT THIS
MAYOR MAYOR TAYLOR AND HIS CITY
COUNCIL ARE NOT A FAVORITE
OF ARBOR AND ARBITRATES
RECOGNIZE THAT THIS MAYOR AND
HIS CITY COUNCIL HAVE MISERABLY
FAILED TO PROVIDE US WITH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
AND ORTBERG RECOGNIZES THAT
THIS MAYOR AND HIS CITY COUNCIL
HAVE FAILED TO CLEAN UP THE
GITTLEMAN CONTAMINATION PLUME
AND ORBA RECOGNIZES THIS CITY
COUNCIL THIS MAYOR HAVE DONE
NOTHING TO INCREASE MINIMUM
WAGE IN THIS TOWN.
WE NEED AT LEAST TWENTY DOLLARS
AN HOUR IF WE ARE ALLOWING
PEOPLE TO HAVE A DECENT LIFE,
LIVABLE LIFE IN THIS TOWN.
I AM RUNNING AGAINST THIS WOMAN
HERE.
HER NAME IS JANAYA.
I CALL HER IDEA LIAR BECAUSE
SHE HAS ACCEPTED FINANCES FROM
OLD FRIENDS OF ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES.
I AM SURE BY NOW YOU KNOW WHO
IDF IS.
ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES ARE THE
MOST ATROCIOUS TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION IN THE WORLD TODAY
.
THEY HAVE BEEN COMMITTING A
GENOCIDE IN GAZA ON AVERAGE IDF
KILLS TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE IN
GAZA, MOSTLY CHILDREN AND WOMEN
WITH THE HELP WITH THE SILENCE
OF THIS CITY COUNCIL BY NOT
PASSING A SIMPLE RESOLUTION
THAT SAYS CUT OFF MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL, THEY HAVE HELPED
ISRAEL DRIVE PEOPLE TO
STARVATION.
THEY HAVE HELPED THEM MURDER
PEOPLE AND IN MY OPINION THEIR
HANDS ARE BLOODY.
THEY HAVE HANDS ARE BLOODY.
WE HAVE BEEN ASKING FOR A
RESOLUTION TO CUT OFF MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL FOR DECADES AND
THEY HAVE NOT DONE IT
THROUGHOUT THOSE DECADES.
THIS GENOCIDE WAS ONGOING AND I
HAD BEEN TALKING ABOUT IT AND
THIS CITY COUNCIL HAS IGNORED
IT FOR A VERY, VERY LONG TIME
PROTECTING THE TERRORISTS
ZIONIST STATE OF ISRAEL.
I AM HERE AGAIN TO ASK THIS
CITY COUNCIL TO DO THE RIGHT
THING TO A HUMANE THING AND
PASS THIS RESOLUTION.
AFTER ALL, NANCY PELOSI AND
DEBBIE DINGELL HAVE ALREADY
SAID HALT WEAPONS TRANSFER TO
ISRAEL, WHICH IS ANOTHER WAY
OF SAYING CUT OFF MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
ISRAEL IS THE BIGGEST THREAT TO
WORLD SAFETY.
WE HAVE SEEN THAT FOUR HUNDRED
AND NINETY TWO DAYS AT LEAST
CUT OFF MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN.
THANK YOU FOR COMING EVERYONE.
FOR 20 YEARS WE HAVE DEMANDED
THE RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL AND NOW AFTER
ISRAEL HAS MURDERED OVER FORTY
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS JUST IN
THE LAST SIX MONTHS, EVEN
CONGRESS MEMBERS DINGELL AND
PELOSI HAVE SAID YEAH, CUT OFF
THE MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
WHY ON EARTH CAN'T YOU WHY ON
EARTH CAN'T THIS CITY COUNCIL
DO AT LEAST THAT AT LEAST
APPROVE THE RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL?
BUT CITY COUNCIL IS STILL
DEFENDING ISRAEL AND STILL
DEFENDING THE HOLOCAUST THAT
ISRAEL IS COMMITTING AGAINST
THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
FORTY THOUSAND DEAD WHEN WE
COME IN HERE AND WE DEMAND THE
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL COUNCIL MEMBER AISHA
GHAZI EDWYN RAISES UGLY
ACCUSATIONS OF ANTI-SEMITISM
AND SHE HAS SUCCEEDED IN
SQUASHING THAT RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID WITH THOSE
UGLY ACCUSATIONS ALL SHE HAS TO
DO IS RAISE HER HAND AND SAY
YEAH, LET'S APPROVE THIS THING
INSTEAD.
INSTEAD COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI
EDWYN WENT ON THE ATTACK AND
ACTED LIKE THE MOST SERVILE
OF SERVANTS TO THE APARTHEID
STATE OF ISRAEL.
THAT IS A LIFELONG SHAME ON
COUNCIL MEMBER GAZA EDWYN, A
LIFELONG SHAME AND MY OPINION
COUNCIL MEMBER DOES HE SAID
WHEN YOU ARE UP TO YOUR
EYEBALLS IN PALESTINIAN BLOOD
AND SO IS THE REST OF THE CITY
COUNCIL YOU HAVE ABUSED YOUR
GOVERNMENTAL POWER TO SMOTHER
THE RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL.
WHEN I WAS A KID I WONDERED HOW
ON EARTH CAN HOLOCAUST BE
ALLOWED TO HAPPEN?
HOW CAN SLAVERY BE ALLOWED TO
HAPPEN?
HOW CAN RACISM BE ALLOWED TO
HAPPEN AND NOW I LOOK IN THE
EYES OF THIS CITY COUNCIL AND I
KNOW EXACTLY HOW IT HAPPENS.
I TELL THE CITY COUNCIL AGAIN
OVERCOME YOUR INSTINCT TO
COMMIT RACISM, VIOLENCE AGAINST
THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE,
OVERCOME THAT INSTINCT, STOP
BEING THE MOST SERVILE
OF SERVANTS TO THE GENOCIDAL
STATE OF ISRAEL.
I APPROVE THE RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
.
DON'T HELP ISRAEL MURDER
ANOTHER FORTY THOUSAND
PALESTINIANS.
DON'T DO IT.
DON'T
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ELLEN
JOHNSON
.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M THE LAST SPEAKER I'M SURE
YOU'RE PROBABLY RATHER HAPPY
ABOUT THAT, MR. MAYOR AND CITY
MEMBERS OF CITY COUNCIL.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK AGAIN.
ELLEN JOHNSON HERE, PRESIDENT
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF PITTSFIELD VILLAGE
CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION.
I WAS HERE ABOUT A MONTH AGO
AND TO SPEAK ON BEHALF OF THE
VILLAGE RESIDENTS AND ALSO OUR
LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR AND MY
PURPOSE TONIGHT IS TO MAKE
CLEAR THAT THE BOARD AND THE
VILLAGE RESIDENTS ARE VERY MUCH
IN FAVOR OF THE ORDINANCE
BANNING THESE GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS.
WE WANT IT TO BE A SUCCESS IN
THIS CITY AND WE WANT IT TO BE
A SUCCESS IN THE VILLAGE TO BE
A SUCCESS.
WE NEED YOUR HELP SUPERIOR.
OUR CONTRACTOR IS A SMALL
BUSINESS.
I KNOW THE CITY IS VERY
INTERESTED IN SUPPORTING SMALL
SMALL BUSINESSES.
THE COST TO COMPLY AT THIS TIME
TO SERVICE THE CONTRACT FOR OUR
SIXTY FOUR ACRES IS PRETTY HIGH
AND IT'S GOING TO HAVE TO BE
PASSED ON TO THE RESIDENTS
WHICH IS GOING TO BE A DOUBLE
BURDEN REALLY TO THE TO SMALL
BUSINESSES ALIKE LAKE SUPERIOR
AND ALSO TO OUR RESIDENTS.
SO THE BEST HELP WE THINK COULD
TAKE A COUPLE OF FORMS.
I MEAN WE TALKED ABOUT A
VARIANCE ABOUT A MONTH AGO OR
AN EXCEPTION FOR CONDO
COMMUNITIES LIKE OURS WHICH
WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL AND
ALSO FOR LANDSCAPE CONTRACTORS
WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR THEM AS
WELL.
WE'D ALSO LIKE TO SEE SOON VERY
SOON A ROBUST PURCHASING
PROGRAM THAT WOULD BE DESIGNED
WITH LANDSCAPE CONTRACTORS WITH
THEIR INPUT ON WHAT WORKS IN
DIFFERENT SETTINGS AND THAT
WOULD PROVIDE SOME GUIDANCE AS
WELL AS SOME GOOD FUNDING FOR
PURCHASE OF THE EQUIPMENT.
THE VARIANCE COULD SUNSET ONCE
CONTRACTS CONTRACTORS ARE
PROPERLY EQUIPPED.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE THERE
LONG TERM.
SO WE MAKE THESE ASKS AGAIN
KNOWING THAT OPTIONS MAY BE
LIMITED BUT WE'RE CONFIDENT
THAT A HAPPY SOLUTION EXISTS
FOR ALL PARTIES YOU FOLKS AND
OUR NEEDS AS WELL.
SO WE LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING
FROM YOU.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL COUNCIL OVER A DENHA
THANK YOU MARY TAYLOR FIRST I
JUST WANTED TO ADDRESS THE
COMMENTS FROM MR OSBORNE.
I KNOW WE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
CHAT AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
MEETING AND I HAVE SHARED YOUR
CONCERNS ALONG WITH THE STAFF
AS WELL.
I'M SORRY THAT IT TOOK THIS
LONG AS I THINK YOU HEARD IN
MR. DE HUNTINGS BUDGET WE ARE
CONTINUING TO WORK ON IMPROVING
CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SO
HOPEFULLY THIS IS AN AREA WHERE
WE CAN CONTINUE TO IMPROVE BUT
THANK YOU FOR COMING AND
SHARING THAT WITH US AND
HOPEFULLY WE CAN GET THAT FIXED
FOR YOU.
I ALSO WANTED TO SHARE THAT FOR
RESIDENTS IN WARD THREE COUNCIL
MEMBERS GATHERED I HAVE A
COFFEE HOUR COMING UP ON
SUNDAY, APRIL 21ST AT 10 AM AT
THE MALLETS CREEK BRANCH OF THE
INTERIOR DISTRICT LIBRARY.
IT WILL BE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
MEET OUR NEW POLICE CHIEF WHO
WILL BE JOINING US AS A SPECIAL
GUEST.
SO HE CAN MEET THE COMMUNITY AS
WELL.
AND SO WE WOULD WELCOME YOUR
ATTENDANCE THERE.
THANK COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO LET FOLKS KNOW THAT
BLOOM FIRST IS HAPPENING ON MAY
11TH DOWNTOWN CELEBRATION
OF SPRING.
THERE'S OVER 30 MAIN STREET
BUSINESSES WHO ARE OFFERING
GIVEAWAYS ALL OF YOUR FAVORITE
PLACES AND THIS WILL BE ONE
OF THE FIRST WEEKENDS THAT OUR
CITY STREETS ARE CLOSED TO
ALLOW FOR PEDESTRIAN AND TO
REPLACE CARS ON MAIN STREET,
WHICH IS REALLY EXCITING.
SO I HOPE EVERYONE CAN COME OUT
AND THEN JUST AS A SORT
OF PUBLIC AWARENESS NOTE, THE
WASH NOT INTERMEDIATE SCHOOL
DISTRICT SCIENCE OLYMPIAD IS
THIS SATURDAY ALL DAY AT
PIONEER HIGH SCHOOL WHICH
HAPPENS TO COLLIDE WITH A
FOOTBALL GAME AT THE BIG HOUSE
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET.
SO IT'LL BE VERY BUSY IN THAT
GENERAL AREA THAT SERVES THE
ENTIRE WASHTENAW SCHOOL
DISTRICT, NOT JUST ANN ARBOR.
SO LOTS AND LOTS OF TEAMS
COMPETING.
SO IF YOU'RE PLANNING TO HEAD
OUT IN THAT AREA, PLEASE BE
PATIENT.
WATCH PEDESTRIANS OF ALL
DIFFERENT TYPES AND BE SAFE.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN RAGAZZI
EDWYN THANK NIGHTMARE.
SO FIRSTLY I WANT TO THANK
ELLEN JOHNSON AND PITTSFIELD
KANDOS FOR COMING AGAIN TODAY
AND I JUST WANT TO ASSURE YOU
THAT WE'VE HEARD YOU AND
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA AND I ARE
WORKING ON THIS ISSUE AND WE
HAD INTRODUCED A COMPANION
RESOLUTION WITH A LEAF BLOWER
ORDINANCE CALLED RESOLUTION TO
LAUNCH EDUCATIONAL AND
ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES AND
SUPPORT TRANSITION TO ALL
ELECTRIC LEAF MAINTENANCE AND
THE PURPOSE OF THAT RESOLUTION
WAS BOTH TO LAUNCH AN
EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGNS TO ENGAGE
BUSINESS OWNERS AND RESIDENTS
AS WELL AS ABOUT FIVE PROGRAM.
AND OUR SITE IS WORKING ON
THIS.
THEY'VE ALSO JUST LAUNCHED A
WEBSITE THEY WANTED ME TO
SHARE.
SO PLEASE THE OSA WEBSITE AND
YOU CAN KEEP UP ON THE UPDATES.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
THANKS.
I JUST WANTED TO ANNOUNCE THAT
WORD FIVE LISTENING HOURS ARE
THIS COMING SUNDAY THEY'RE AT A
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT TIME AND
LOCATION THAN USUAL.
THEY'LL BE AT THREE P.M. ON
SUNDAY AT SWEETWATERS ON
WASHINGTON STREET COUNCIL
MEMBER CARSON.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
YESTERDAY I ATTENDED THE
KATHERINE STREET DEVELOPMENT
GROUND BREAKING CEREMONY.
IT WAS A BEAUTIFUL EVENT AND AS
SOMEONE WHO GREW UP IN THE AREA
I WENT TO FORSYTHE EIGHT AT
DALLAS AS YOU KNOW, HAD LOTS
OF FRIENDS THAT LIVED ON THE
OLD WEST SIDE, WENT TO THE
COMMUNITY CENTER.
I DO WANT TO MENTION AND SAY
THAT I DO SHARE THE CONCERN
ABOUT GENTRIFICATION AND
DISPLACEMENT OF BLACK RESIDENTS
AND BUSINESSES IN KOREATOWN.
THIS HAS BEEN A LONGSTANDING
ISSUE AND IT'S IMPORTANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE COMMUNITY'S
HISTORY.
WHILE WE CAN'T REVERSE THE PAST
THIS PROJECT CAN BE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO MOVE FORWARD IN
A MORE INCLUSIVE WAY.
I WANT TO THANK ADMINISTRATOR
TONY FOR SECURING ONGOING
FUNDING FOR THE KATHERINE
STREET COMMUNITY CENTER AND THE
BUDGET.
I'M EAGER TO REVIEW THE DETAILS
OF THE ALLOCATION HISTORICALLY
MY COMMUNITY BASICALLY FOLKS
THAT LOOK LIKE ME HAVEN'T
ALWAYS FELT INCLUDED BY THE
CITY.
THIS CENTER REPRESENTS A
HOPEFUL, A HOPEFUL STEP TOWARDS
INCLUSIVE CITY AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO PARTICIPATING IN THE
PROGRAMS.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER.
I'M SORRY I HAD THIS WATSON.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND I
WILL BE HAVING A COFFEE HOUR.
I THINK IT'S NEXT WEEK.
IT IS.
IT'S NEXT WEEK.
IT'S WEDNESDAY THE 24TH AT THE
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY AT
SIX P.M. WE ARE ALREADY HALFWAY
THROUGH APRIL FOLKS.
HOUSE MEMBER WATSON JOIN ME AT
MY COFFEE HOUR THIS SUNDAY,
APRIL 21ST AT THREE P.M. AT
PANERA ON WASHTENAW.
COME WITH QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
OR JUST TO SAY HELLO.
I'LL BE JOINED BY SPECIAL GUEST
CITY COUNCIL CANDIDATE FOR WARD
TWO JOHN MALIK.
LIKE MY COLLEAGUES, MANY OF MY
COLLEAGUES ARE ON THE TABLE
ACTUALLY I ATTENDED YESTERDAY I
ATTENDED THE GROUNDBREAKING FOR
ONE TWENTY ONE CATHERINE
STREET.
NOW KNOWN AS DUNBAR TOWER.
IT WAS A BIG MOMENT FOR THE
BLACK COMMUNITY, THE ARTS
COMMUNITY AND URBANITES WHO
NEED TO SUPPORT WHO NEED
SUPPORT TO AFFORD TO LIVE HERE
AND ALL THOSE WHO WANT OUR
COMMUNITY TO BE WELCOMING AND
VIBRANT.
WHEN MY PARENTS CAME TO ANN
ARBOR IN THE LATE 1970S, THE
TRADITIONAL BLACK WEST SIDE
NEIGHBORHOOD IN ANN ARBOR WAS
ALREADY BEGINNING TO BE
GENTRIFIED WHEN I WAS GROWING
UP IN THE NINETIES OUTSIDE
OF BETHEL, IMEE AND SECOND
BAPTIST CHURCHES, IT WAS HARD
FOR ME TO IDENTIFY A PHYSICAL
PLACE THAT CLEARLY BELONGED TO
THE BLACK COMMUNITY IN ANN
ARBOR.
I'M PROUD THAT DONE BY OUR
TOWER AND THE COMMUNITY SPACE
WITHIN THE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL HAS DUBBED THE LAVENDER
ROOM WILL BE JUST THE PLACE I
WAS LOOKING FOR.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE A BRIEF
COMMENT ABOUT, YOU KNOW, A
PROPOSED PROJECT IN MY WARD THE
TWENTY FIVE TWENTY FIVE
UNIVERSALIZING ROAD PROJECT.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE'VE
HEARD JUST AN UNUSUAL AMOUNT
OF FEEDBACK ABOUT ALREADY FROM
THE COMMUNITY BOTH COUNCIL
MEMBER ECKMANN AND I AND THE
PLANNING STAFF AS WELL.
AND OF COURSE WE HEARD SOMEONE
COMMENTING ABOUT IT TONIGHT.
I JUST WANT TO CAUTION FOLKS
THIS PROJECT HAS A LONG WAY TO
GO BEFORE IT EVEN COMES BEFORE
OUR PLANNING, BEFORE IT COMES
BEFORE COUNCIL.
THERE'S A LOT STILL TO BE
LEARNED ABOUT IT AND I'VE
SPOKEN WITH THE DEVELOPER ABOUT
THEIR PLANS TO DO MORE OUTREACH
TO THE COMMUNITY, THE CONDOS
THAT ARE NEARBY SO THAT PEOPLE
CAN REALLY GET A BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF EXACTLY WHAT
IT IS AND WHAT THE IMPACT MIGHT
BE.
BUT I WANTED TO MAKE THE POINT
AS WELL THAT I DO THINK THAT
THIS REALLY POINTS TO A BIG
PROBLEM THAT WE HAVE IN OUR
CURRENT SYSTEM WITH HOW WE TIME
OUR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AROUND
SITE PLANS.
AND FOR ME THIS HAS BEEN A
REALLY GOOD LESSON IN WHY WE
REALLY NEED TO TO MAKE THE
CHANGES THAT WE OUTLINED AT OUR
LAST MEETING IN THE SERIES
OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
RESOLUTIONS THAT WE PASSED
BECAUSE THE RESIDENTS CERTAINLY
AT THE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
MEETING THAT I ATTENDED WERE
RECEIVING INFORMATION THAT JUST
FEELS INCOMPLETE AT THIS POINT.
AND SO I CAN CERTAINLY
UNDERSTAND, YOU KNOW, THE
TENDENCY TO TO JUMP TO
CONCLUSIONS BUT I AM HOPING
THAT FOLKS WIL JUST KIND
OF TAKE A BREATH, LET'S LEARN
MORE ABOUT IT AND AND THEN WE
CAN GO FROM THERE.
THANKS, COUNCILOR RUSSELL.
SO I'M SURE FOLKS ARE
CONFLICTED AS TO WHETHER THEY
SHOULD ATTEND OR WATCH OUR
MEETING TONIGHT OR ATTEND A
COMMUNITY SESSION THAT THE
PUBLIC SCHOOLS ARE ALSO HOSTING
TONIGHT.
I THINK WE'VE ALL HEARD FROM
CONSTITUENTS WHO ARE REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE BUDGET
SHORTFALL IN OUR PUBLIC
SCHOOLS.
AGAIN, A REMINDER WE ARE
SEPARATE ENTITIES REPRESENTED
BY A DIFFERENT ELECTED BUT WE
ALL WANT OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS TO
SUCCEED.
I WAS REALLY THANKFUL TO HAVE A
ZOO MEETING WITH SCHOOL BOARD
PRESIDENT FIESTER.
YOU HAVE SENATOR JEFF IRWIN,
REPRESENTATIVE JASON MORGAN
COMMISSIONER AND I COULDN'T
MAKE IT BUT HE WAS UPDATED AND
COUNCIL MEMBER H.R. GHAZI ADMIN
AND THE DISCUSSION BASICALLY
WAS WHAT CAN WE DO TO HELP AND
HOW CAN WE ENSURE THAT OUR
SCHOOLS SUCCEED AND HOW CAN WE
SHOW OUR CONFIDENCE IN THAT
FUTURE STUDENTS COMING TO OUR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WHERE THEY WILL
RECEIVE THE SAME EXCELLENT
EDUCATION THAT OUR OWN CHILDREN
HAVE?
I AM THE MOTHER OF A PROUD
HUMAN RIVERA GRADUATE AND I
WOULD LOVE TO SEE FUTURE
GENERATIONS EXPERIENCE THAT
THAT SAME QUALITY EDUCATION AND
LOVE AND SUPPORT FROM OUR
TEACHERS A GOOBER MINDER FROM
REPRESENTATIVE MORGAN AND
SENATOR IRWIN IS AT THE COUNTY
ALSO WENT THROUGH A BUDGET
SHORTFALL NOT TOO LONG AGO A
TEN MILLION DOLLAR BUDGET
SHORTFALL AND THEY WERE ABLE TO
COME THROUGH IT SO JUST THE
MESSAGE THAT, YOU KNOW, EVERY
SINGLE ONE OF US HAS HEARD FROM
FOLKS FROM FAMILIES WHO ARE
REALLY, REALLY WORRIED AND I
THINK WE'RE ALL HANDS ON DECK
AND LOOKING TO THE LEADERSHIP
OF THE SCHOOL BOARD TO REALLY
DIRECT US AS TO HOW WE CAN BEST
HELP.
I ALSO ATTENDED TODAY THE
MICHIGAN LEAGUE FOR PUBLIC
POLICY POLICY FORUM AND
REPRESENTED OUR WORK HERE ON
THE GUARANTEED INCOME PROGRAM
ALONGSIDE DR. MONA WHO IS
IMPLEMENTING A SIMILAR PROGRAM
FOR MOTHERS IN FLINT.
DR. ALUTIIQ FOUR FROM THE ISSUE
OF POVERTY SOLUTIONS CENTER AND
KIM GRANT, THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR
FOR LEO.
I WAS REALLY PROUD TO BE ABLE
TO SAY THE NRA USING OUR
FUNDING CAME OUT TO SAY THAT WE
ARE TRYING OUR BEST TO SUPPORT
FAMILIES WHO ARE STRUGGLING IN
A VERY EXPENSIVE TOWN WITH VERY
LIMITED HOUSING.
AND AS WE MOVE MORE HOUSING
WHICH WILL BRING MORE REVENUE
TO OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
AND AS THIS PROGRAM ROLLS OUT
SO THAT FAMILIES VULNERABLE
FAMILIES HAVE THE CASH
ASSISTANCE THEY NEED, THERE
SHOULD BE A DEMONSTRATION
OF HOW OUR COMMUNITY CARES FOR
FOLKS WHO ARE REALLY STRUGGLING
AFTER THE PANDEMIC AND CONTINUE
TO STRUGGLE.
AND I HOPE OTHER COMMUNITIES
CAN ALSO EMBRACE THIS AS AS A
PRIORITY.
SO I THINK ALL OF MY COLLEAGUES
WERE VOTING FOR THAT IN FAVOR
IN PREVIOUS COUNCIL TO WHO
RALLIED AROUND THAT FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
FOR MY PART I WOULD JUST LIKE
TO THANK ADMINISTRATOR HONY AND
AND OUR DEPARTED CFO PACHON AND
AND EVERYONE WHO WORKS WITH
THEM AND FOR THEM AND SO JASON
WITH THEM FOR THE THE GREAT
DEAL OF HARD AND EXCELLENT WORK
THAT HAS GONE ON IN ORDER TO
PUT TOGETHER THE PROPOSED
TWENTY FIVE BUDGET TO REFRESH
THE RECOLLECTION THE PUBLIC WE
WILL HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING WITH
RESPECT TO THAT BUDGET AT OUR
NEXT MEETING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE 6TH OF MAY
AND THEN THE BUDGET AS A WHOLE
WILL BE CONSIDERED AT OUR
SECOND MEETING IN MAY MAY 20
THE THE ADMINISTRATOR'S BUDGET
IF IT IS AMENDED IT WILL BE
AMENDED IF IT IS PASSED IT WILL
BE PASSED.
IF IT'S NOT PASSED IT'LL BE
ACCEPTED.
THAT'S THAT'S HOW OUR SYSTEM
THAT'S HOW OUR SYSTEM WORKS AND
WE LOOK FORWARD TO THAT FURTHER
AND FULSOME CONVERSATION.
ONE POINT I KNOW THAT FUNDING
IS OF COURSE IMPORTANT TO
SCHOOLS AS HAS BEEN MENTIONED
IS IMPORTANT TO THE CITY AND UP
AND DOWN THE LINE WE DO HAVE
ONE PIECE OF FUNDING THAT COMES
IN THROUGH A COUNTY MILLAGE THE
SO-CALLED COMMUNITY MENTAL
HEALTH AND PUBLIC SAFETY WHICH
INCLUDES A REBATE TO TOO MANY
JURISDICTIONS THROUGHOUT
WASHTENAW COUNTY THAT DO
ALREADY HAVE POLICE SERVICES.
THAT REBATE IS OF COURSE TO
MAKE UP FOR THE COST TO ANN
ARBOR VOTERS AND OUR TAXPAYERS
OF THE PUBLIC SAFETY PORTION
OF THE COUNTY MILLAGE.
I'LL NOTE THAT THE THE FORTY
FORTY TWENTY ALLOCATION FOR
COUNTY MILEAGE MONEY WAS A
SOLUTION THAT WAS APPROPRIATE
AND I THINK IF YOU'LL FORGIVE
ME VISIONARY IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN BUT THAT TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR IS A NEW ERA WITH
NEW NEEDS AND I'LL OBSERVE
FURTHER THAT THERE HAS BEEN
ADDITIONAL AND SUBSTANTIAL
FUNDING FROM ANN ARBOR VOTERS
WITH RESPECT TO CLIMATE ACTION
AND TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
THAT VOTERS I'VE INDICATED IN
MY VIEW THERE AND WHAT I'VE
ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT THESE
FUNCTIONS THERE ARE OTHER
FUNCTIONS AS WELL.
THERE ARE OTHER OPPORTUNITIES
AS WELL FOR FUNDING THAT DO NOT
HAVE CURRENTLY DEDICATED
SOURCES WITH PARTICULARITY I'D
JUST LIKE TO IDENTIFY ONE FOR
MY PART AND THAT IS AN UNARMED
RESPONSE PROGRAM.
AND WHILE I EXPECT AND I THINK
THERE ABSOLUTELY SHOULD BE BOTH
HERE AT THE TABLE AND
THROUGHOUT THE PUBLIC A FAIR
BIT OF CONVERSATION ABOUT WHERE
ANY MONIES MIGHT BE ALLOCATED
ON A LONGER TERM BASIS THAN OUR
RESPONSE PROGRAM IS JUST THE
SORT OF THING FOR WHICH I THINK
THOSE FUNDS WOULD BE WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE AMONG OTHERS
OF COURSE WE HAVE I'D LIKE TO
REQUEST CONFIRMATION OF THE
FOLLOWING APPOINTMENT THAT WAS
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION OF THE APRIL ONE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR REGULAR
SESSION TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY VISIT
KARIMOVA MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCILOR CORNELL SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER IA DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED IT IS PROVED WE NOW
COME TO THE CONSENT AGENDA HAVE
A MOTION PLEASE TO AGREE TO
APPROVE THE CONCEPT OF A
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION THE CONSENT AGENDA.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE AN
INTRODUCTION WITH RESPECT TO C
FOR FROM MR. LEONARD FOR NOT
SEEI FOR C FOUR I JUST WANT TO
HEAR FROM HIM SO VERY BADLY I'M
SURE HE CAN.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCILOR
PROCEED WHEN THE CLOSING FOR
THE STREETS FOR OUR MEMORIAL
DAY PARADE THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT OUR NEIGHBORHOOD AND MORE
TO JUST A BLOCK AWAY FROM WHERE
CHRIS AND I LIVE WHERE CHRIS
GREW UP HAS BEEN A TRADITION
SINCE THE 1960S AND IT'S A
BELOVED TRADITION, A WAY FOR
FOLKS TO COME AND SEE A FIRE
TRUCK OF OUR OFFICERS HERE.
THE MAYOR PRESENT AND ALSO NEED
A NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION AS
RALLY BEHIND NEIGHBORS AND NEED
THROUGH EVERYTHING.
IT'S IT'S I LOVE THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I HOPE YOU CAN
COME AND VISIT US WHATEVER IT
IS.
I JUST WANT TO HIGHLIGHT C
THREE WHICH WILL APPROVE A
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT WITH THE
COUNTY OF WASHTENAW AND GRANT
TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
THE COUNTY TO EXPAND
WEATHERIZATION ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS IN THE CITY THIS IS A
REALLY IMPORTANT INITIATIVE
BECAUSE WEATHERIZATION IS
EXPENSIVE AND THE PEOPLE WHOSE
HOMES ARE MOST IN NEED OF IT
ARE PAYING THE MOST PER SQUARE
FOOT FOR THEIR ENERGY.
LOW INCOME PEOPLE TYPICALLY
HAVE THAT THERE ARE IN THAT
SITUATION.
SO I AM SO EXCITED TO SEE THESE
EXTRA FUNDS AND IF I UNDERSTOOD
CORRECTLY FROM A STAFF MEMBER
YESTERDAY OF THE CATHERINE
STREET GROUNDBREAKING BY JUNE
ON THE ON OUR SITE SUPPORT OR
POSSIBLY JUNE 1ST IT WILL BE
YOU WILL BE TO APPLY FOR THIS
MONEY SO FURTHER DISCUSSION
BECAUSE OF THE GENDER FAVOR
POSED THE CONSENT TO GENDER IS
APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PERIOD OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
THAT IS TO SAY THE AGENDA ITEM
TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK AND
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME CLOCK, THE TIME FOR
THE CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED, WHEN
YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED, PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE RESOLUTION TO RELEASE
REDWAY RIGHTS ACT TWO EIGHT
FOUR OR FIVE SOUTH STATE
STREET.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
, MAYOR?
I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS ONLINE
WITH THEIR HANDS UP
.
SEE, NO ONE IN THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO.
TWO RESOLUTION APPROVED
ALLOCATION OF A PORTION OF EAST
EISENHAUER PARKWAY, A TWO EIGHT
FOUR OR FIVE SOUTH STATE STREET
AND CONVEYANCE TO THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY OWNERS SUBJECT TO
PUBLIC UTILITY AND SIDEWALK
EASEMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS ANYONE ON LINE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
MAYOR, I DON'T SEE ANYONE
ONLINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
I SEE NO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF APRIL ONE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
COUNCILOR WATSON SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ON
FAVOR OPPOSED TO THE MINUTES
ARE APPROVED C ONE AND AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION TO SIX THROUGH
YOUR CHAPTER TWENTY NINE WATER
RIGHTS OF TITLE TWO THE CODE OF
THE STEBENNE HARBOR MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BECAUSE HE HAD
BEEN ELECTED A COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH DISCUSSION OF C ONE OR
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
C TO AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION TWO SIX NINE OF CHAPTER
TWENTY NINE STORM WATER RIGHTS
OF TITLE TWO THE CODE OF THE
SPEECH IN ARBER MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS DISCUSSION
OF C TWO COUNCILOR SONG NO REAL
DISCUSSION BUT JUST TO NOTE
THAT FOR FOLKS ARE LOOKING TO
INSTALL RAIN WATER GARDENS YOU
THAT YOU CAN ACTUALLY GET A
STORMWATER CREDIT IT'S GREAT
FOR THE DISCUSSION OF C TO
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED C
THREE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION TO SIX FOR CHAPTER
TWENTY NINE SEWER RATES
OF TITLE TO THE CODE OF THE
SYDNEY HARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER THIS THING BY COUNCILOR
GUTSIER IN DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF C THREE OR FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED C FOR AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING A POINT SIX ACRES FROM
T WPE TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO R1 D
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
THREE SEVEN ZERO ONE THREE
SEVEN ONE THREE RIVERSIDE DRIVE
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCILOR BRITISH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C FOR MR
LEONARD.
THANK YOU.
MY UNCLE AND HIS BROTHER AND
THE PLANNING MANAGER AND ONE
QUESTION THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
SHARE AND RESPOND APPLICATION
OF THE ARE ONE DENHA ARE WHEN
EACH DISTRICT MAY REQUIRE
GREATER DEGREE OF SERVICES THAN
THE LESS THAN SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING DISTRICTS TO ASSURE
HEALTH AND SAFETY AND WELFARE
ANY FUTURE R1 DENHA ARWANI
ZONING AREA SHOULD BE
CONTINGENT UPON THE
AVAILABILITY OR PROVISION
OF ADEQUATE PUBLIC SERVICES TO
SERVE THE HIGHER DENSITY IS
PERMITTED BY THAT DISTRICT IN
ADDITION TO OTHER PERTINENT
CONSIDERATIONS FROM OUR UDC IN
THE STAFF REPORT
RESPONSES TO
PREVIOUS COUNCIL MEMBER
QUESTIONS I SEE THAT THERE IS
NO NOW NO SERVICE BESIDES
SANITARY SEWER SERVICE.
SO IT SOUNDS LIKE IN IN ANY
SCENARIO UTILITIES WILL NEED TO
BE RUN TO THESE ANNEX PARCELS.
ISN'T IT MORE EFFICIENT AND
ECONOMICAL TO CREATE SERVICE
FOR SIX HOMES?
ARE ONE D FOR THIS POT INSTEAD
OF THREE ARE ONE B FOR THIS
PART OF THE CITY STANDARD
SPECIFICATIONS ARE ACTUALLY A
STANDARD OF SERVICE OR ANY
SINGLE FAMILY'S OWN PROPERTY.
SO WHETHER THEY REQUIRE THE
PROPERTIES ARE ONE ALL THE WAY
UP TO ARWANI WOULD BE THE SAME
SPECIFICATIONS FOR WATER
INFRASTRUCTURE.
DEPENDING ON THE DEVELOPMENT
APPROACH, UTILITIES MAY NEED TO
BE ONTO THE SITE.
FOR EXAMPLE, A WAIVER COULD BE
CONSIDERED BY THE CITY TO
PROVIDE WATER BY USE OF THE
WELL WITHOUT THE EXTENSION
OF WATER AND INFRASTRUCTURE TO
THE SITE.
THIS WOULD LIKELY BE MOST
EFFECTIVE WITH A LOWER PATTERN
OF DENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT IF
WATER INFRASTRUCTURE WERE TO BE
EXTENDED.
I AGREE MORE HOMES WOULD HELP
TO AMORTIZE THE SUBSTANTIAL
COST OF THAT INFRASTRUCTURE
OVER MULTIPLE HOMES FOR
STORMWATER RUNOFF A LOWERING
OF THE PATTERN OF DEVELOPMENT
WOULD LIKELY ENABLE STORMWATER
TO BE ADDRESSED THROUGH ON SITE
MEASURES WITHOUT THE EXTENSION
OF INFRASTRUCTURE TO THE SITE
AS DENSITY INCREASES IN THIS
AREA, MORE IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
WOULD LIKELY INCREASE THE NEED
FOR CONSTRUCTION OF STORMWATER
INFRASTRUCTURE TO SERVE THE
SITES WHEN IT COULD NO LONGER
BE ACCOMMODATED ON THE SITE.
HAPPY TO ADDRESS ANY FURTHER
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF SEAFORTH
IN FAVOR POSE IT IS APPROVED
DIAZANON RESOLUTION TO RELEASE
RODWAY RIGHTS OF TWO EIGHT FOUR
OR FIVE SOUTH STATE STREET MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER THIS SECOND
BY COUNCILOR WATSON DISCUSSION
OF THE S1 ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVE THE ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTED IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE.
THE SATISFIED THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT DOWN TO RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE ALLOCATION OF A
PORTION OF E EISENHOWER PARKWAY
TO EIGHT FOUR FIVE SOUTH STATE
STREET AND CONVEYANCE TO THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER SUBJECT
TO PUBLIC UTILITY AND SIDEWALK
EASEMENTS MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA DISCUSSION PLEASE TO
ONE FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
PROVE TO THE ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT THUS SATISFYING
THE EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT DC
ONE RESOLUTION TO RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF ISSUANCE
OF DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT LIQUOR LICENSE TO
UPLIFT AND ARBOR LLC LOCATED AT
TWO ONE ZERO S FIRST STREET
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG
SECONDED BY COUNT NO ACKMANN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER D I WOULD JUST
LIKE TO SAY AS A MEMBER OF THE
LIQUOR COMMISSION THAT THIS IS
A REALLY EXCITING LICENSE TO BE
OFFERING.
THIS WILL BE A DDA LICENSE FOR
UPLIFT AND ARBOR AND UPLIFT AND
HARBOR WILL BE AND OUR FIRST
LGBTQ PLUS BAR IN ALMOST FOUR
YEARS SINCE THE OUTBREAK
CLOSED.
THIS WILL TRULY BE A VITAL
PHYSICAL COMMUNITY SPACE FOR
ENTERTAINMENT AND ALSO FOR
MEETING SPACE AND COMMUNITY
EVENTS WHICH IS ALSO EXCITING
UPLIFT AND ARBER WILL BE A
TRULY UNIQUE VENUE THAT FOSTERS
A SAFE SENSE OF SAFETY AND
BELONGING TO THOSE WHO FEEL
MARGINALIZED IN OTHER AREAS
OF IN OTHER SPACES.
BUT IT WILL ALSO BE WELCOME TO
ANY OF US WHO WANT TO FREQUENT
A SPACE THAT CHAMPIONS
DIVERSITY, UNDERSTANDING AND
ACCEPTANCE AND IT WILL HAVE
EVERYTHING YOU COULD WANT
NONALCOHOLIC THINGS AS WELL
BEER, WINE, SELTZER'S STANDARD
COCKTAILS CRAFT AND REGULAR NON
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND HOT
FOOD.
THEY WILL PARTNER WITH THE
SEARCH BAR AS A FOOD VENDOR TO
PROVIDE A FULL MENU OF FOOD SO
YOU CAN GO THERE AND ENJOY
YOURSELF EVERY WAY POSSIBLE FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA I THANK
YOU AND THANK YOU FOR THAT
COUNCILOR FOR THE FOR THE THE
ELOQUENT SUMMARY OF THE OF THE
NEW BUSINESS.
I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
PERSONALLY I'VE HAD A COUPLE
OF CONVERSATIONS WITH WITH THE
FOLKS THAT ARE THERE HOPING TO
ESTABLISH THIS IN OUR DOWNTOWN
AND YOU KNOW, AS SOMEBODY WHO
SPENT A LOT OF TIME IN
BRONKHORST AT ALBAR I AND AND
CONTINUE TO HEAR FROM MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY WHO JUST
DESPERATELY MISS THAT SPACE,
THAT GATHERING SPACE THAT THAT
PLACE FOR A COMMUNITY IN OUR
DOWNTOWN.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE THIS
MOVING FORWARD AND I JUST WISH
UPLIFT ALL OF THE SUCCESS AND
AND LOOK FORWARD TO VISITING AT
SOME POINT IN THE FUTURE AS WE
CONTINUE TOGETHER AS COMMUNITY
.
SO THANK YOU, COUNCILOR BRIGGS
JUST WANT TO ADD THIS FABULOUS
.
NEW ESTABLISHMENT IS COMING TO
JUST WANT TO ADD THIS FABULOUS
WARD FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
NEW ESTABLISHMENT IS COMING TO
FAVOR POSED.
WARD FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
IT IS APPROVED DC TWO
FAVOR POSED.
RESOLUTION TO REVISE AND AMEND
IT IS APPROVED DC TWO
THE LIST OF APPROVED
RESOLUTION TO REVISE AND AMEND
PARTICIPATING ESTABLISHMENTS IN
THE LIST OF APPROVED
THE MAIN STREET AND AABA SOCIAL
PARTICIPATING ESTABLISHMENTS IN
DISTRICT MOVE BY COUNCIL AND
THE MAIN STREET AND AABA SOCIAL
BRITISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
DISTRICT MOVE BY COUNCIL AND
MEMBER QUENELLE DISCUSSION
BRITISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
PLEASE HAVE DC TWO GOTHAM
MEMBER QUENELLE DISCUSSION
MCCONNELL ALSO THIS IS AN ORDER
PLEASE HAVE DC TWO GOTHAM
FIVE TO REMIND FOLKS I
MCCONNELL ALSO THIS IS AN ORDER
MENTIONED EARLIER ABOUT THE
FIVE TO REMIND FOLKS I
SUMMER STREETS PROGRAM STARTING
MENTIONED EARLIER ABOUT THE
MAY 2ND THE STREETS DOWNTOWN
SUMMER STREETS PROGRAM STARTING
WILL BE CLOSED FROM FOUR P.M.
MAY 2ND THE STREETS DOWNTOWN
THURSDAYS TO SIX MONDAYS.
WILL BE CLOSED FROM FOUR P.M.
THIS RESOLUTION ALLOWS FOR OUR
THURSDAYS TO SIX MONDAYS.
SOCIAL DISTRICT TO EXIST WITHIN
THIS RESOLUTION ALLOWS FOR OUR
THOSE BOUNDARIES DURING THAT
SOCIAL DISTRICT TO EXIST WITHIN
TIME WHICH BASICALLY MEANS THAT
THOSE BOUNDARIES DURING THAT
YOU CAN VISIT OUR RESTAURANTS
TIME WHICH BASICALLY MEANS THAT
AND BARS DOWNTOWN AND TRAVEL
YOU CAN VISIT OUR RESTAURANTS
WITHIN THE DISTRICT WITH
AND BARS DOWNTOWN AND TRAVEL
WHATEVER BEVERAGE NONALCOHOLIC
WITHIN THE DISTRICT WITH
ALCOHOLIC THAT YOU MIGHT LIKE
WHATEVER BEVERAGE NONALCOHOLIC
IN AN APPROVED CONTAINER WHICH
ALCOHOLIC THAT YOU MIGHT LIKE
YOU CAN GET FROM THAT MERCHANT.
IN AN APPROVED CONTAINER WHICH
IT'S REALLY BEEN A HUGE SUCCESS
YOU CAN GET FROM THAT MERCHANT.
FOR MAIN STREET BECAUSE FOLKS
IT'S REALLY BEEN A HUGE SUCCESS
ARE MORE LIKELY TO GO INTO A
FOR MAIN STREET BECAUSE FOLKS
RESTAURANT AND THEN GO TO
ARE MORE LIKELY TO GO INTO A
SOMEPLACE TO SHOP OR YOU KNOW,
RESTAURANT AND THEN GO TO
ENJOY MORE OF MAIN STREET
SOMEPLACE TO SHOP OR YOU KNOW,
BECAUSE THEY HAVE THE MOBILITY
ENJOY MORE OF MAIN STREET
TO DO IT BECAUSE THE STREETS
BECAUSE THEY HAVE THE MOBILITY
ARE CLOSED IN THE BUSINESSES
TO DO IT BECAUSE THE STREETS
ARE EXCITED TO PARTICIPATE.
ARE CLOSED IN THE BUSINESSES
SO I'M REALLY ENTHUSIASTIC TO
ARE EXCITED TO PARTICIPATE.
SEE THIS GO THROUGH AND I WOULD
SO I'M REALLY ENTHUSIASTIC TO
BE REMISS IF NOT MENTIONING ON
SEE THIS GO THROUGH AND I WOULD
THURSDAY NIGHTS THERE WILL BE A
BE REMISS IF NOT MENTIONING ON
LIVE MUSIC DOWNTOWN AGAIN ALL
THURSDAY NIGHTS THERE WILL BE A
THROUGHOUT THAT SUMMER SOCIAL
LIVE MUSIC DOWNTOWN AGAIN ALL
DISTRICT PERIOD.
THROUGHOUT THAT SUMMER SOCIAL
SO IT'S A GREAT TIME TO COME
DISTRICT PERIOD.
DOWNTOWN IN.
SO IT'S A GREAT TIME TO COME
THIS CERTAINLY HELPS OUR
DOWNTOWN IN.
BUSINESSES FURTHER DISCUSSION
THIS CERTAINLY HELPS OUR
FAVOR POSED.
BUSINESSES FURTHER DISCUSSION
IT IS APPROVED DC THREE
FAVOR POSED.
RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE
IT IS APPROVED DC THREE
ACQUISITION OF EASEMENTS FOR
RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE
THE NIXON CARTER AND
ACQUISITION OF EASEMENTS FOR
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
THE NIXON CARTER AND
COUNCILOR WATSON SECONDED BY
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
COUNCILOR SONG DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR WATSON SECONDED BY
PLEASE OF DC THREE COUNCIL
COUNCILOR SONG DISCUSSION
MEMBER WATSON.
PLEASE OF DC THREE COUNCIL
I'M EXCITED TO SEE THIS ON THE
MEMBER WATSON.
AGENDA TONIGHT.
I'M EXCITED TO SEE THIS ON THE
THIS HAS BEEN A LONG TIME
AGENDA TONIGHT.
COMING AND WORD TO THE
THIS HAS BEEN A LONG TIME
ENGAGEMENT ON THE NIXON QUARTER
COMING AND WORD TO THE
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT STARTED IN
ENGAGEMENT ON THE NIXON QUARTER
TWENTY SEVENTEEN BUT WE'RE
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT STARTED IN
FINALLY GETTING TO THE
TWENTY SEVENTEEN BUT WE'RE
IMPLEMENTATION PHASE.
FINALLY GETTING TO THE
I WANTED TO REMIND RESIDENTS
IMPLEMENTATION PHASE.
OF THE AREA THAT IF YOU GOOGLE
I WANTED TO REMIND RESIDENTS
NIXON ROAD CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENT
OF THE AREA THAT IF YOU GOOGLE
YOU CAN SUBSCRIBE ON THE CITY'S
NIXON ROAD CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENT
WEBSITE FOR NOTIFICATIONS ABOUT
YOU CAN SUBSCRIBE ON THE CITY'S
BOTH YOU KNOW THE CITY ROAD
WEBSITE FOR NOTIFICATIONS ABOUT
CLOSURES, UPDATES ON THE
BOTH YOU KNOW THE CITY ROAD
PROJECTS AND YOU KNOW, MY
CLOSURES, UPDATES ON THE
EXPERIENCE WITH THE ER HEART
PROJECTS AND YOU KNOW, MY
PROJECT WAS REALLY GOOD IN
EXPERIENCE WITH THE ER HEART
TERMS OF THE TIMING OF THOSE
PROJECT WAS REALLY GOOD IN
UPDATES FROM STAFF AND THAT
TERMS OF THE TIMING OF THOSE
PROJECT WENT REALLY WELL.
UPDATES FROM STAFF AND THAT
SO I HOPE THAT PEOPLE WILL
PROJECT WENT REALLY WELL.
SUBSCRIBE TO TO GET UPDATES AND
SO I HOPE THAT PEOPLE WILL
THEN THE THE OTHER OH YEAH MY
SUBSCRIBE TO TO GET UPDATES AND
MY ONLY OTHER POINT ON IT IS
THEN THE THE OTHER OH YEAH MY
THAT THERE WILL BE A PUBLIC
MY ONLY OTHER POINT ON IT IS
ENGAGEMENT SESSION IN MAY SO
THAT THERE WILL BE A PUBLIC
STAY TUNED I'LL SHARE OUT
ENGAGEMENT SESSION IN MAY SO
INFORMATION ABOUT THAT AS THAT
STAY TUNED I'LL SHARE OUT
GETS FINALIZED BUT LOOK FORWARD
INFORMATION ABOUT THAT AS THAT
TO A PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT SESSION
GETS FINALIZED BUT LOOK FORWARD
ON DESIGN AND FEEDBACK ON THE
TO A PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT SESSION
TIMING OF THIS PROJECT.
ON DESIGN AND FEEDBACK ON THE
COUNCILOR, I'LL JUST SPEAK
TIMING OF THIS PROJECT.
REALLY BRIEFLY TO HOW THIS
COUNCILOR, I'LL JUST SPEAK
QUARTER HAS BEEN SUCH A PAINFUL
REALLY BRIEFLY TO HOW THIS
,PAINFUL AREA FOR FOLKS ALONG
QUARTER HAS BEEN SUCH A PAINFUL
THIS THE STRETCH.
,PAINFUL AREA FOR FOLKS ALONG
BUT EARLY ON WHEN I CAMPAIGNED
THIS THE STRETCH.
I DO REMEMBER TELLING FOLKS
BUT EARLY ON WHEN I CAMPAIGNED
THAT MY MOST FAVORITE
I DO REMEMBER TELLING FOLKS
ROUNDABOUT IN TOWN WHICH I FEEL
THAT MY MOST FAVORITE
LIKE IS A AN ESSENTIAL QUESTION
ROUNDABOUT IN TOWN WHICH I FEEL
FOR ALL COUNCIL MEMBERS.
LIKE IS A AN ESSENTIAL QUESTION
WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE
FOR ALL COUNCIL MEMBERS.
ROUNDABOUT IS ON DAVOREN AND
WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE
NIXON AND WHEN THIS CAME IN
ROUNDABOUT IS ON DAVOREN AND
MOMS WHO LIVED IN WARD TO
NIXON AND WHEN THIS CAME IN
INCLUDING MYSELF WHEN I
MOMS WHO LIVED IN WARD TO
JOYRIDES AND THAT THAT
INCLUDING MYSELF WHEN I
ROUNDABOUT WE LOVE THAT
JOYRIDES AND THAT THAT
ROUNDABOUT.
ROUNDABOUT WE LOVE THAT
LET'S HAVE MORE ROUNDABOUTS AND
ROUNDABOUT.
I KNOW AND I WILL SAY THAT I
LET'S HAVE MORE ROUNDABOUTS AND
KNOW THEIR RESIDENTS HAVE BEEN
I KNOW AND I WILL SAY THAT I
VERY PATIENT WITH US AND TRY
KNOW THEIR RESIDENTS HAVE BEEN
AND WAITING FOR THIS TO BE
VERY PATIENT WITH US AND TRY
FUNDED TO BE PLANNED AND HAVE
AND WAITING FOR THIS TO BE
AN ENGAGEMENT AROUND IT.
FUNDED TO BE PLANNED AND HAVE
I KNOW I'VE HAD EMAILS AROUND
AN ENGAGEMENT AROUND IT.
LIKE WHY DIDN'T WE USE OUR
I KNOW I'VE HAD EMAILS AROUND
FUNDING TO MAKE THIS HAPPEN
LIKE WHY DIDN'T WE USE OUR
MORE QUICKLY AND WHY WOULD YOU
FUNDING TO MAKE THIS HAPPEN
FUND SOMETHING LIKE GUARANTEED
MORE QUICKLY AND WHY WOULD YOU
INCOME INSTEAD?
FUND SOMETHING LIKE GUARANTEED
YOU KNOW, I THINK WITH EVERY
INCOME INSTEAD?
BUDGET SEASON AND EVERY YEAR
YOU KNOW, I THINK WITH EVERY
WHENEVER WE CAN HAVE REVENUE
BUDGET SEASON AND EVERY YEAR
COME OUR WAY WE HAVE TO MAKE
WHENEVER WE CAN HAVE REVENUE
THESE DIFFICULT DECISIONS.
COME OUR WAY WE HAVE TO MAKE
BUT ONCE IT'S IN THE CAPITAL
THESE DIFFICULT DECISIONS.
IMPROVEMENT PLAN, IT'S PLANNED
BUT ONCE IT'S IN THE CAPITAL
AND THAT'S A REALLY GOOD STEP
IMPROVEMENT PLAN, IT'S PLANNED
FIRST STEP AND I'M REALLY
AND THAT'S A REALLY GOOD STEP
EXCITED TO SEE THIS COMING TO
FIRST STEP AND I'M REALLY
FRUITION FINALLY AND I LOOK
EXCITED TO SEE THIS COMING TO
FORWARD TO JOY RIDING THE NEXT
FRUITION FINALLY AND I LOOK
ROUNDABOUT WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
FORWARD TO JOY RIDING THE NEXT
WATSON FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
ROUNDABOUT WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
FAVOR POST IS APPROVED WITH
WATSON FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
FAVOR POST IS APPROVED WITH
ARE SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
REQUIREMENT TO HAVE THE
ARE SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
PLEASURE OF CLOSED SESSION
REQUIREMENT TO HAVE THE
TODAY.
PLEASURE OF CLOSED SESSION
MISS CORE MEMBER MOTION PLEASE
TODAY.
TO APPROVE THE SUPPORT
MISS CORE MEMBER MOTION PLEASE
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
TO APPROVE THE SUPPORT
REFERRALS MOVE BY COUNCILOR
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
THIS SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
REFERRALS MOVE BY COUNCILOR
WATSON DISCUSSION OF THE
THIS SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CLERK'S REPORT ON FAVOR POSED
WATSON DISCUSSION OF THE
THE CORRECT SUPPORT IS APPROVED
CLERK'S REPORT ON FAVOR POSED
.
THE CORRECT SUPPORT IS APPROVED
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
.
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
NO THANK YOU.
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
HAVING COMPLETED PUBLIC COMMENT
NO THANK YOU.
COMMENT ON THE UP FRONT THERE
HAVING COMPLETED PUBLIC COMMENT
IS NO PUBLIC COMMENT.
COMMENT ON THE UP FRONT THERE
OVERFLOW MADE A MOTION TO
IS NO PUBLIC COMMENT.
ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCIL
OVERFLOW MADE A MOTION TO
MEMBER BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN
ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCIL
TAKEN BY COUNCILOR HARRISON
MEMBER BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED WERE
TAKEN BY COUNCILOR HARRISON
ADJOURNED